(04:59:44 PM) intrigeri: meeting time
(04:59:58 PM) anonym: boink!
(05:00:05 PM) u: oh we did not say who will host and who will take notes
(05:00:07 PM) nodens: o/
(05:00:17 PM) nodens: I did take notes last time
(05:00:19 PM) nodens: (badly)
(05:00:20 PM) u: (we wanted to prepare this in advance from now on)
(05:00:22 PM) intrigeri: I can do either one.
(05:00:35 PM) nodens: I can do it but i'd rather not
(05:00:36 PM) u: i think i hosted last time
(05:00:39 PM) sajolida: meeting time!
(05:00:41 PM) intrigeri: u: (I think we're waiting for the new setup to
be proposed & discussed.)
(05:00:55 PM) intrigeri: sajolida: You're late. I'll report to upper
management.
(05:00:58 PM) u: hmm!
(05:01:12 PM) emmapeel: sorry I need to change room, back in 5 min
(05:01:18 PM) segfault: i'm too tired to take notes, sorry
(05:01:37 PM) muri: hi *
(05:02:20 PM) anonym left the room.
(05:02:22 PM) u: okay.. should i host then?
(05:02:27 PM) intrigeri: I took notes 2 months ago, so I'll host.
(05:02:33 PM) anonym entered the room.
(05:02:34 PM) intrigeri: We need a note taker.
(05:02:35 PM) emmapeel left the room.
(05:02:39 PM) sajolida: i can do that
(05:03:01 PM) pablonatalino: Hi, I'm Pablo from Brazil
(05:03:07 PM) emmapeel entered the room.
(05:03:07 PM) sajolida: pablonatalino: you made it!!!
(05:03:08 PM) intrigeri: pablonatalino: hi Pablo!
(05:03:12 PM) nodens: hi Pablo !
(05:03:19 PM) intrigeri: OK, let's get started!
(05:03:22 PM) emmapeel: hi pablonatalino!
(05:03:25 PM) anonym: pablonatalino: welcome!
(05:03:33 PM) intrigeri: agenda is at
https://tails.boum.org/blueprint/monthly_meeting/
(05:03:33 PM) jvoisin: o/
(05:04:06 PM) intrigeri: First topic is "Volunteers to handle "Hole in
the roof" tickets this month" (there's a proposal to drop it from the
agenda but it requires a replacement, that we haven't yet)
(05:04:17 PM) pablonatalino: thanks
(05:04:30 PM) u: hi pablonatalino!
(05:05:08 PM) u: i won't be able to handle any hole in the roof this
month
(05:05:16 PM) u: agenda already too packed
(05:05:31 PM) intrigeri: same.
(05:05:35 PM) anonym: same for me
(05:05:42 PM) segfault: same
(05:05:59 PM) sajolida: same
(05:06:00 PM) emmapeel: ditto
(05:06:03 PM) masha: same
(05:06:27 PM) nodens: Same, unless it's raining a lot during vacation ;)
(05:06:28 PM) masha: but what is "handle" in this case?
(05:06:47 PM) sajolida: masha: at least assign it to you :)
(05:06:52 PM) sajolida: and now what to do next
(05:07:02 PM) sajolida: and **know**
(05:07:21 PM) masha: ok, well I'll stick to me "no more assigment"
(05:07:21 PM) bitingbird left the room.
(05:07:44 PM) intrigeri: anyone needs more time to answer this question?
if so, let me know now.
(05:08:11 PM) bitingbird entered the room.
(05:08:17 PM) u: no  intrigeri
(05:08:20 PM) segfault: i think we should move on
(05:09:03 PM) bitingbird left the room (Disconnected: closed).
(05:09:03 PM) intrigeri: meta: I see newcomers on this meeting so I want
to give them the opportunity to ask for more time even though some of us
are ready to jump to the next topic
(05:09:23 PM) sajolida: +1
(05:09:25 PM) intrigeri: meanwhile, anonym can prepare then next topic
by looking at #13625
(05:09:26 PM) Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Bug #13625: Root Terminal cannot start
graphical applications https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/13625
(05:09:27 PM) masha: I'm fine moving fwd
(05:09:34 PM) nodens: #8447 -> if I find time I might be able to handle
this one


(05:09:35 PM) Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Bug #8447: Persistent data is not erased
when persistence features are disabled
https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/8447
(05:09:43 PM) pablonatalino left the room (Disconnected: closed).
(05:09:51 PM) emmapeel: great nodens!
(05:09:54 PM) sajolida: intrigeri: next topic is "Volunteers to handle
important tickets flagged for next release, but without assignee"
(05:10:01 PM) nodens: That's a big if ;)
(05:10:02 PM) bitingbird entered the room.
(05:10:10 PM) intrigeri: sajolida: I know. Thanks.
(05:10:13 PM) intrigeri: nodens: great.
(05:10:28 PM) intrigeri: sajolida: Which is exactly why I pointed anonym
to that ticket.
(05:10:30 PM) emmapeel:
https://labs.riseup.net/code/projects/tails/issues?query_id=198&sort=assigned_to%2Cpriority%3Adesc
(05:10:42 PM) sajolida: ah, sorry #13625 is one of these...
(05:10:45 PM) Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Bug #13625: Root Terminal cannot start
graphical applications https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/13625
(05:10:50 PM) intrigeri: OK, next topic then: "Volunteers to handle
important tickets flagged for next release, but without assignee"
(05:10:55 PM) emmapeel: yeah 13625 is the only ticket with no assignee
(05:10:58 PM) pablonatalino entered the room.
(05:10:59 PM) intrigeri: precisely.
(05:11:23 PM) pablonatalino left the room (Disconnected: closed).
(05:11:47 PM) anonym: I take it
(05:11:53 PM) intrigeri: great, thanks
(05:11:55 PM) anonym: I'm working on semi-related stuff
(05:12:26 PM) intrigeri: next topic then!
(05:12:26 PM) intrigeri: "Availability and plans until the next meeting"
(05:12:39 PM) geb entered the room.
(05:12:48 PM) anonym: (in fact, I think the fix for #12738 incidentally
fixes #13625)
(05:12:48 PM) Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Bug #12738: %gconf-tree-*.xml not
reproducible in some environments - Tails - RiseupLabs Code Repository
https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/12738
(05:12:55 PM) pablonatalino entered the room.
(05:12:57 PM) u: i have a lot of other work this month, but also
scheduled time to work on debian related things and the upcoming
donation campagin mainly
(05:12:59 PM) emmapeel: im looking for a house and on frontdesk shift...
that is what I am going to do :D
(05:13:21 PM) geb: Hi folks ! I am here to follow the meeting, sorry to
be late.
(05:13:27 PM) u: anonym: \o/ that's great :)
(05:13:33 PM) nodens: availability low, but I intend to start the debian
NM process 
(05:13:39 PM) muri: i'll be doing some tailsbot work, apparently it is
still repeating itself ;)
(05:13:39 PM) u: geb: hi, no problem
(05:13:42 PM) masha: geb: Hi
(05:13:44 PM) u: nodens: woohoo
(05:13:51 PM) geb: :-)
(05:13:53 PM) u: muri: hihi
(05:13:56 PM) segfault: i'm mostly available after the 17th and will
start working on the VeraCrypt tickets
(05:13:57 PM) anonym: availability: expect me present all month at
office hours (CEST)
(05:14:06 PM) masha: I'll be working mainly on some non-Tails work, and
travelling a bit
(05:14:25 PM) masha: no plan appart help desk stuff
(05:14:35 PM) intrigeri: Availability: I'll probably disappear for a
week between Sept 11-20. Otherwise, business as usual. Priorities:
bootstrap VeraCrypt work on the OTF contract, make progress on #11680,
do my last bit of reproducible builds (#12633), and help kurono do some
#12705 + do the rest myself.
(05:14:36 PM) Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Bug #11680: Upgrade server hardware
(2017 edition) - Tails - RiseupLabs Code Repository
https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/11680
(05:14:36 PM) Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Feature #12633: Lower the workload
caused by reproducible builds Jenkins jobs
https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/12633
(05:14:37 PM) Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Feature #12705: Update the size of the
system partition to >= 4 GiB https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/12705
(05:15:08 PM) anonym: priorities: Tails 3.2 > reproducibility >
everything else 
(05:15:11 PM) sajolida: "Full" availability. Top priority DAVE 2
(#12328). Then the survey platform (#14540) to bootstrap the needfinding
for VeraCrypt (#14474). And, and write thank you email to donors from
last year.
(05:15:12 PM) Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Bug #12328: Migrate DAVE to the
WebExtensions framework https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/12328
(05:15:12 PM) Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Feature #14540: Survey platform
https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/14540
(05:15:13 PM) Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Feature #14474: Research user needs for
VeraCrypt support in Tails https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/14474
(05:15:45 PM) u: sajolida: did you assign a ticket to you about the
donors from last year?
(05:16:32 PM) anonym: (but in practice "Tails 3.2 > reproducibility" is
more like "Tails 3.2 == reproducibility" (in terms of prio), although
some reproducibility stuff can remain until shortly after 3.2)
(05:16:51 PM) sajolida: not really... i'm not sure what's going on in
Redmine regarding this :)
(05:17:18 PM) intrigeri: sajolida: I suspect tickets were created at the
end of the summit, just like other action items in the meeting notes :)
(05:17:26 PM) anonym: sajolida: what do you mean with "Full"?
(05:17:46 PM) u: sajolida: https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/14553 i
planned to prepare such an email only once the new campaign is ready
(05:17:47 PM) Tailsbot: Tails ☺ RiseupLabs Code Repository
https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/14553
(05:17:55 PM) u: so that we won't write them twice (spam!)
(05:17:56 PM) intrigeri: anonym:  24/7, 5 minutes max. latency for
answering questions as per SLA
(05:18:00 PM) sajolida: anonym: i'm not travelling but as usual, i have
other stuff in my life and i'm not following office hours
(05:18:23 PM) u: sajolida: so maybe let's synchronize for that?
(05:18:45 PM) sajolida: u: i'll take #14550 over then if you don't mind
(as part of last years campaign in my mind)
(05:18:46 PM) Tailsbot: Tails ☺ RiseupLabs Code Repository
https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/14550
(05:18:49 PM) anonym: intrigeri: :)
(05:18:58 PM) intrigeri: anyone needs more time to tell us about their
priorities & availability in September?
(05:19:04 PM) segfault: nope
(05:19:08 PM) u: sajolida: sure, but let's discuss *when* this should
happen then?
(05:19:12 PM) sajolida: ok
(05:19:14 PM) intrigeri: pablonatalino?
(05:19:21 PM) u: as I said, my plan was to do it only once the new
campaign is out.
(05:19:25 PM) u: sajolida: thanks!
(05:19:38 PM) masha: I'm done too
(05:19:43 PM) u: intrigeri: done
(05:19:47 PM) sajolida: done
(05:19:50 PM) anonym: done
(05:20:07 PM) intrigeri: u, sajolida: according to the notes it's #14510
(05:20:08 PM) Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Feature #14510: Write a thank you email
to people who donated last year
https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/14510
(05:20:36 PM) u: it's a duplicate.
(05:20:39 PM) u: sorry! :)
(05:20:52 PM) intrigeri: u: it's 2 different action items in the meeting
notes.
(05:20:54 PM) intrigeri: whatever.
(05:20:58 PM) intrigeri: next topic!
(05:21:06 PM) intrigeri: "Important missing bits in the next monthly
report."
(05:21:25 PM) emmapeel: tails summit?
(05:21:30 PM) emmapeel: oops i should read the report
(05:21:31 PM) intrigeri:
https://tails.boum.org/blueprint/monthly_report/report_2017_08/
(05:21:41 PM) intrigeri: while we're at it, we need an
editor/coordinator for that report.
(05:22:16 PM) intrigeri:
https://tails.boum.org/blueprint/monthly_report/#index1h1 has the log of
who committed to do it this year.
(05:22:33 PM) anonym: so, spriver wants someone to take over the August
report
(05:23:01 PM) pablonatalino: I have a lot of difficulty with the English
language, but I think I can dedicate myself for a few hours.
(05:23:07 PM) anonym: i.e.
https://mailman.boum.org/pipermail/tails-project/2017-September/000945.html
(05:23:27 PM) intrigeri: worst case I can do it, but the idea when
starting these reports again was to 1st ensure that sajolida & myself
don't end up being the fallback editors, so…
(05:23:58 PM) intrigeri: pablonatalino: Maybe you happen to know nice
native speakers who would be glad to review/edit your copy,
language-wise?
(05:24:08 PM) u: i think pablonatalino just volunteered, right?
(05:24:16 PM) emmapeel: pablonatalino: well you should read what has
happened and not write so much... is mostly about choosing the right
links
(05:24:22 PM) u: I can review the english, no problem
(05:24:28 PM) intrigeri: great!
(05:24:44 PM) pablonatalino: yes
(05:24:46 PM) emmapeel: i can give you a hand these days if you like
(05:24:56 PM) intrigeri: (keep in mind that half of the work as an
editor, in my experience, is to improve the language and translate from
geek-speak to non-geek-speak)
(05:24:57 PM) emmapeel: i will try to be online
(05:25:02 PM) intrigeri: amazing!
(05:25:16 PM) anonym: yay!
(05:25:28 PM) masha: cool
(05:25:32 PM) masha: welcome on board!
(05:25:34 PM) u: \o/
(05:25:35 PM) anonym: next?
(05:25:43 PM) intrigeri: pablonatalino:
https://tails.boum.org/blueprint/monthly_report/ documents (somewhat)
what you're supposed to do.
(05:25:58 PM) emmapeel: the discussions come next, first is
https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/12402
(05:25:58 PM) intrigeri: pablonatalino: usually one would give a
deadline on the corresponding thread on tails-project@ (anonym linked to
it above)
(05:25:59 PM) Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Feature #12402: Include Yubico
Authenticator in Tails https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/12402
(05:26:01 PM) u: pablonatalino: don't hesitate to ask here if you run
into problems
(05:26:38 PM) intrigeri: wow, there's some rush going on here, it's too
fast for me.
(05:26:58 PM) sajolida: We're not done with this point which is
"Important missing bits in the next monthly report"...
I see at least about missing stuff:
- Hot topics on our help desk ← hint, hint
- Past events ← if people want to add there stuff
(05:27:00 PM) anonym: intrigeri: sorry! :S
(05:27:12 PM) segfault: well, we have a limit of one hour and there are
still some discussions ahead..
(05:27:41 PM) intrigeri: IMO giving *minimal* directions to someone who
commits to one task for the first time is more important than discussing
1 more non-urgent topic during a meeting.
(05:28:03 PM) intrigeri: anyway :/
(05:28:14 PM) sajolida: full ack...
(05:28:16 PM) segfault: of course it's important to give the directions,
but i'm also a bit impatient because of the time limit
(05:28:43 PM) sajolida: segfault: don't worry, we won't have time to
discuss all the topics
(05:28:47 PM) sajolida: as usual
(05:28:58 PM) pablonatalino: ok, I prefer in the beginning just
accompany and observe
(05:29:03 PM) masha: what is the deadlin for the monthly report?
(05:29:28 PM) sajolida: it's up to pablonatalino to decide now, but
usually ~15th
(05:29:30 PM) intrigeri: masha: I've suggested pablonatalino to send
this info on tails-project@
(05:29:35 PM) masha: because we have an help desk meeting tomorrow and
can discuss then send our hot topics to tails-project?
(05:29:50 PM) intrigeri: I suspect the deadline will be *after*
tomorrow.
(05:30:02 PM) sajolida: super cool! even better, you should dump them in
blueprint for the report yourself
(05:30:02 PM) masha: yep
(05:30:09 PM) masha: sajolida: ok
(05:30:18 PM) masha: adding this to our help desk agenda!
(05:30:27 PM) intrigeri: pablonatalino: I'm not sure I understand "I
prefer in the beginning just accompany and observe" correctly. Does this
conflict in any way with you coordinating/editing our August report?
(05:30:30 PM) u: cool, masha
(05:30:37 PM) pablonatalino left the room (Disconnected: closed).
(05:31:16 PM) masha: whoops :)
(05:31:26 PM) pablonatalino entered the room.
(05:31:50 PM) intrigeri: I'll try to add DebConf to "past events".
(05:31:57 PM) masha: pablonatalino: I was afraid you left because of us
rushing on you ;)
(05:32:03 PM) geb: :)
(05:32:35 PM) intrigeri: pablonatalino: my last question before you left
was: I'm not sure I understand "I prefer in the beginning just accompany
and observe" correctly. Does this conflict in any way with you
coordinating/editing our August report?
(05:34:05 PM) intrigeri: OK, let's move on. pablonatalino, I'll let you
clarify what you volunteered to do (if needed) on
tails-project@boum.org.
(05:34:15 PM) intrigeri: next topic is:
https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/12402
(05:34:53 PM) u: ok, i added this ticket to the list during the last
ticket triaging session
(05:35:14 PM) intrigeri: crap, I added this 5 months ago and don't
remember why
(05:35:35 PM) intrigeri: and I can't sum it up quickly right now.
(05:36:16 PM) anonym: I think I saw the core of the whole issue:
"My underlying concern is that this landscape [2FA solutions] might be
fragmented enough that, to "encourage better security practises in
users", we end up adding similar software to support 2-5 other 2FA
solutions in our ISO image. If this is how the landscape looks like,
i.e. it is similar to IM and crypto-currencies, then IMO we need to
either ship none (and rely on Additional Software Packages), or choose a
single one carefully (and then someone needs to help us choose)."
(05:36:34 PM) nodens: intrigeri: I guess because of #5 ?
(05:37:01 PM) intrigeri: anonym: ack
(05:38:00 PM) u: i tried to add in #9 why i think that it's not
important to add this software: all the hardware is currently closes
source
(05:38:08 PM) anonym: I think it's clear that the landscape is
fragmented, so => "pick one", but I don't think we have the data or
knowledge to decide that
(05:38:15 PM) emmapeel: yeah i think u has a point there
(05:38:16 PM) u: (i know this was the case for some pgp smartcards too
in the past)
(05:38:26 PM) segfault: i agree with anonym
(05:38:34 PM) anonym: u: OTOH all hardware Tails runs on is
proprietary...
(05:38:40 PM) masha: I don't get the "closed source hw"?
(05:38:45 PM) intrigeri: most hardware (including security tokens,
smartcards, etc.) is proprietary.
(05:38:54 PM) masha: yes that's what I secretly meant
(05:39:06 PM) intrigeri: anyway, that would be relevant if we were at
the stage when we would try pick one!
(05:39:24 PM) segfault: we should pick one, and before that we should do
some research to pick the best one
(05:39:36 PM) u: i would say that this is something so power-usery that
it can rely on additional software
(05:39:39 PM) intrigeri: s/should/could/ and then I agree :)
(05:39:39 PM) masha: but we agree on shipping one then?
(05:39:48 PM) u: and soon additional software will have a GUI, so why
bother?
(05:39:53 PM) masha: hum
(05:40:48 PM) u: segfault: i dont think we have the humanpower to
investigate that currently
(05:41:03 PM) anonym: IMHO: let's state on the ticket that we look for
that "one perfect" solution, and then mit "easy" and "low prio" and hope
for a contribution. we have more impactful things to do.
(05:41:15 PM) intrigeri: anonym: agreed.
(05:41:16 PM) sajolida: anonym: +1000
(05:41:19 PM) masha: ok
(05:41:22 PM) nodens: ack
(05:41:30 PM) segfault: ack
(05:41:50 PM) anonym: cool! next!
(05:41:52 PM) u: i can live with your proposal, although i would be
ready to reject the ticket and tell people to rely on additional
software
(05:41:53 PM) nodens: s/easy/starter/ :P
(05:41:55 PM) intrigeri: 2FA would be amazing but clearly the dust needs
to settle a bit.
(05:42:06 PM) intrigeri: u: same.
(05:42:22 PM) masha: I'm fine with whatever looks like a consensus
(05:42:23 PM) anonym: u: I'm fine with that too
(05:42:34 PM) intrigeri: to make anonym's proposal consistent, I think
the ticket must be retitled to "Research what 2FA solution (if any) is
worth installing by default in Tails"
(05:42:46 PM) anonym: but I'm afraid it signals to the contributor on
the ticket that "we are not at all interested, fuck off"
(05:42:51 PM) intrigeri: because that proposal conflicts with the
current scope of the ticket.
(05:43:12 PM) u: ack with the retitling proposal, low prio and easy
(05:43:16 PM) intrigeri: anonym: well, apparently we're not interested
in doing the work ourselves, are we?
(05:43:21 PM) u: otherwise reject.
(05:43:26 PM) intrigeri: u: ack.
(05:43:29 PM) sajolida: i'm in favor of "Research what 2FA solution (if
any) is worth installing by default in Tails"
(05:43:42 PM) anonym: intrigeri: yes, but we have other "wishlist"
tickets, right?
(05:43:43 PM) geb: i agree with the proposal too
(05:44:17 PM) u: done with this one then?
(05:44:29 PM) emmapeel: maybe we can open another ticket and relate it
to this one, so we don't change the words of the contributor
(05:44:40 PM) intrigeri: So the current proposal seems to be: 1. state
on the ticket that we look for that "one perfect" solution, and then
mark it "easy" and "low prio" and hope for a contribution. we have more
impactful things to do.; 2. retitle the ticket to "Research what 2FA
solution (if any) is worth installing by default in Tails". 3. Move on.
(05:44:46 PM) anonym: (to be clear, my comment ("... fuck off") was if
we'd reject the ticket)
(05:44:56 PM) intrigeri: we decided recently to encode decisions
clearly, so I;m trying to do it:
(05:45:03 PM) intrigeri: DECISON: 1. state on the ticket that we look
for that "one perfect" solution, and then mark it "easy" and "low prio"
and hope for a contribution. we have more impactful things to do.; 2.
retitle the ticket to "Research what 2FA solution (if any) is worth
installing by default in Tails". 3. Move on.
(05:45:03 PM) u: anonym: understood
(05:45:08 PM) intrigeri: next
(05:45:15 PM) u: intrigeri: :)
(05:45:15 PM) intrigeri: https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/12098
(05:45:16 PM) Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Bug #12098: Spurious screensaver
activation while synchronizing the system clock
https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/12098
(05:45:26 PM) anonym: summary?
(05:45:36 PM) intrigeri: rejected 4 months ago, skip it.
(05:45:39 PM) u: yes
(05:45:50 PM) u: i deleted it from the agenda at the beginning of the
meeting
(05:45:53 PM) u: sorry.
(05:45:55 PM) segfault: emmapeel: i thought about suggesting this
(opening a new ticket), but i think intrigeri's comments on the tickets
will be helpful for others who want to work on this
(05:46:18 PM) u: let's keep the history of that ticket.
(05:46:21 PM) intrigeri: next topic then:
https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/12437
(05:46:21 PM) Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Feature #12437: Save coredumps to a
sticky ectory - Tails - RiseupLabs Code Repository
https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/12437
(05:46:22 PM) anonym: is there a ticket on the agenda that someone
*knows* they can summarize? if so, let's pck that one
(05:46:51 PM) emmapeel: yeah true segfault
(05:46:59 PM) jvoisin left the room.
(05:47:02 PM) u: anonym: there is a lot of backlog from the ticket
triaging session... so. no.
(05:47:21 PM) u: this is a ticket we don't know anything about, well at
least i dont and this meeting is partly there also to clear this plate
(05:47:27 PM) u: our collective plate :)
(05:47:35 PM) intrigeri: I added that one in the hope that someone would
have the technical insight.
(05:47:40 PM) sajolida: meta: in theory, now we should have assignee for
each Discuss ticket and this person should be responsible for making
sure the discussion is ready and summarize it here if needed. i don't
see this on most tickets on the agenda. we also said: "Discussions with
no assignee will be postponed."
(05:48:18 PM) u: maybe segfault?
(05:48:50 PM) intrigeri: I have a hard time summing up this ticket (that
I added to the agenda) at the same time as hosting at the same time as
reading various meta discussions.
(05:49:04 PM) u: let's skip it if nobody has insight, set to low
priority.
(05:49:04 PM) u: move on.
(05:49:06 PM) intrigeri: so I'll just ignore everything for now and
focus on summing up this ticket.
(05:49:10 PM) anonym: so, this proposal would make Tails crash (via OOM)
if there's a lot of segfaults going on
(05:49:19 PM) pablonatalino left the room (Disconnected: closed).
(05:49:44 PM) segfault: u: i didn't look at this ticket before, but i
could prepare something for the next meeting, if we want to postpone
it..
(05:49:45 PM) intrigeri: OK, I'm overwhelmed and can't do it right now.
(05:49:49 PM) intrigeri: skip it.
(05:49:50 PM) anonym: which actually will defend against "exploits which
require multiple tries to succeed" incidentally :)
(05:49:56 PM) u: segfault: cool!
(05:50:17 PM) intrigeri: Can anyone please take over hosting for the
last 10 minutes? My patience is exhausted.
(05:50:19 PM) sajolida: intrigeri: maybe before skipping it we should
assign it to someone so the discussion is prepared next time
(05:50:33 PM) anonym: intrigeri: I take over
(05:50:35 PM) segfault: so i'll assign this to me?
(05:50:41 PM) anonym: segfault: please do!
(05:50:43 PM) u: segfault: yes :)
(05:50:47 PM) sajolida: segfault: if you're up for preparing the
discussion yes!
(05:50:50 PM) u: segfault: but low priority i would say
(05:51:09 PM) segfault: done
(05:51:32 PM) anonym: next! https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/7439
(05:51:32 PM) Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Feature #7439: Decide whether to remove
the "clock synchronization" notification
https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/7439
(05:51:42 PM) u: DECISION: segfault tries to research #12437 for another
meeting. skip it.
(05:51:54 PM) u: (I'm encoding our decisions ;))
(05:52:20 PM) u: pff in this one please ignore my comments.
(05:52:20 PM) segfault: u: that's great :)
(05:52:22 PM) anonym: u: oh yeah!
(05:52:38 PM) anonym: u: ok!
(05:52:55 PM) anonym: so, after ignoring u's comments (where there was a
confusion) the summary is: "This notification might be misleading, too
technical, scary."
(05:53:08 PM) anonym: Current text:
Synchronizing the system's clock
Tor needs an accurate clock to work properly, especially for Hidden
Services. Please wait...
(05:53:11 PM) masha: but no notification is bad ux-wise
(05:53:17 PM) u: masha: ack
(05:53:21 PM) u: anonym: thanks :)
(05:53:26 PM) masha: (just quoting u)
(05:53) anonym: masha: IMHO we'd get 99% of the benefit with the warning
you get when starting Tor Browser "too early"
(05:53:57 PM) sajolida: the ticket was initially about *removing* this
notification but then the discussion drifted the rephrasing it
(05:54:06 PM) sajolida: should we take a decision regarding *removing*
it first?
(05:54:15 PM) anonym: sure
(05:54:21 PM) u: sajolida: sure
(05:54:24 PM) sajolida: at least as long as the Tor bootstrap UX remains
the same as it is today
(05:54:40 PM) intrigeri: the underlying question seems to be: "are our
icon in the top bar + the notification when starting Tor Browser too
early enough?" -- if yes, then we can remove this one.
(05:54:58 PM) sajolida: meta: as a UX person I'm not very interested in
this discussion, so if people have a personal interest here please show
it!
(05:55:01 PM) masha: too early enough?
(05:55:30 PM) segfault: masha: are 1 and 2 enough?
(05:55:43 PM) sajolida: i don't get "too early enough"
(05:55:48 PM) intrigeri: I believe the goal of this notification is to
avoid users trying things that cannot possibly work.
(05:55:51 PM) sajolida: which sounds like an oxymoron
(05:56:02 PM) masha: ah ok, I agree. From an help desk PoV I don't
remember people complaining
(05:56:03 PM) u: i have no opinion on this one. we can skip it, but it's
one of those tickets which are two years old and don't have an assignee
(05:57:01 PM) intrigeri: I see two cases: 1) first time user: likely 1st
thing they'll try is Tor Browser, and they'll get an error message; if
that error message tells them what *exactly* they have to wait for, then
IMO we don't need that notification; 2) recurring user: they will look
at the icon in the top bar, and then we don't need the notification.
(05:57:02 PM) anonym: I'm in favor of removing the notification, and
showing an improved version of it when starting Tor Browser
(05:57:08 PM) u: we can even reject that ticket imo, as long as the
parent ticket is not clearer
(05:57:14 PM) segfault: i think we could rephrase it to something like
"preparing to start Tor" or just "starting Tor"
(05:57:36 PM) segfault: i think that would be better UX than removing it
(05:57:43 PM) intrigeri: So IMO the question is: is the dialog text good
enough when starting tor browser too early? If not, improve it and then
drop this noisy notification that's useless for most users.
(05:57:43 PM) sajolida: my take is that this notification might not be
the most useful ever but the text is not so bad, i't probably translated
in tons of languages already and it's good to have *something* telling
the user that Tails is "doing stuff" to connect to Tor.
(05:57:46 PM) masha: anonym & intrigeri: +1
(05:58:23 PM) intrigeri: (Let's keep it mind that any notification has a
cost. It makes users less likely to listen to us when we try to tell
them something important on the desktop.)
(05:58:34 PM) sajolida: i think this ticket was originally meant as part
of the big plan in #10491, but not as "let's drop it right now out of
the blue"
(05:58:34 PM) anonym: intrigeri: +1000
(05:58:36 PM) Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Feature #10491: Redesign the network
configuration and startup https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/10491
(05:59:10 PM) segfault: i think the prompt when starting Tor browser is
bad UX and signalling to the user when Tor is ready provides better UX
(05:59:19 PM) sajolida: and it probably relates to something very
visible to Windows users for example: seeing the clock bumps by several
hours
(05:59:20 PM) intrigeri: sajolida: given the non-existing timeline for
#10491, perhaps cheap UX intal improvements are welcome?
(05:59:22 PM) u: maybe let's just collect our various proposals, and not
drop it, and keep it around as long as somebody plans to work on the
parent ticket?
(05:59:43 PM) anonym: what intrigeri said :)
(05:59:46 PM) sajolida: intrigeri: agreed
(05:59:50 PM) u: ack intrigeri
(05:59:56 PM) nodens: fully agreeing with intrigeri,  screaming about
the wolf and all that. It would be best to drop it *if* the dialog text
for tor browser is good
(06:00:15 PM) nodens: (when starting too early that is)
(06:00:31 PM) u: note that on my computer i never even see this
notification
(06:00:40 PM) intrigeri: OK, so we have a disagreement here between the
"notify only when trying to do it wrong" approach (myself + anonym's
proposal I think) and "communicate progress as it goes" (segfault and
possibly sajolida).
(06:00:42 PM) u: probably the connection always happens fast enough
(06:00:48 PM) intrigeri: u: I see it all the time.
(06:01:02 PM) masha: u: event at the summit?
(06:01:20 PM) nodens: I can't remember seeing it... But I usually use
Tails in fast networks
(06:01:21 PM) u: masha: i did not use Tails at the summit
(06:01:48 PM) intrigeri: I say sajolida will sum up the arguments in the
notes, and that's already good progress done on this ticket! IMO it
should be turned into a UX design ticket now.
(06:01:52 PM) u: ack!
(06:01:55 PM) u: :)
(06:01:58 PM) masha: ack
(06:02:03 PM) anonym: +1
(06:02:03 PM) segfault: i think the dialog should hint on the Tor icon
in the top bar showing the status of Tor
(06:02:08 PM) u: (and ... we reached our 1 hour limit)
(06:02:16 PM) intrigeri: segfault: exactly what I'm proposing :)
(06:02:30 PM) masha: yeah like a loading bar notification coming from
the onion or so
(06:02:31 PM) segfault: intrigeri: ah, i was busy typing and didn't read
yet
(06:02:34 PM) intrigeri: segfault: ("tells them what *exactly* they have
to wait for")
(06:02:45 PM) anonym: I think we'll switch back to "communicate progress
as it goes" once we have the full connection wizard thing, in some
distant future, but until then notifications is not a good vessel for
this info
(06:02:49 PM) intrigeri: segfault: (that icon *is* the indicator they
should wait for)
(06:02:51 PM) anonym: so it's better to drop it
(06:03:20 PM) masha: and as intrigerisaid earlier it's mainly for first
time users
(06:03:24 PM) segfault: intrigeri: ok, i agree with that
(06:03:34 PM) intrigeri: so apparently we could turn this into a Code
ticket!
(06:03:43 PM) anonym: so, we have consensus?
(06:03:45 PM) anonym: sajolida: ?
(06:03:46 PM) segfault: intrigeri: (i don't see where you wrote that,
but it doesn't matter)
(06:03:51 PM) intrigeri: I'll try to sum up a proposal:
(06:03:52 PM) masha: yes
(06:04:05 PM) u: i ack this
(06:05:05 PM) intrigeri: 1. we ensure the error dialog that appears when
starting Tor Browser before Tor is ready points the user to what
*exactly* they have to wait for (i.e. the Tor status icon in the top bar
to not be crossed anymore); 2. then we remove the "Synchronizing the
system's clock" notification; 3. #10491 will save the day in due time.
(06:05:29 PM) anonym: +2
(06:05:33 PM) intrigeri: (only problem is that (1) can be hard to do in
a zenity dialog without a nice picture, so actually it's not trivial to
implement)
(06:05:34 PM) segfault: ++
(06:05:41 PM) geb: thanks for the summary
(06:06:00 PM) intrigeri: Code, low prio, not easy unless someone
documents exactly how to test this in a live Tails.
(06:06:08 PM) nodens: ack
(06:06:14 PM) u: intrigeri: this sounds like a nice proposal
(06:06:39 PM) cool
(06:07:29 PM) anonym: any objections to making this a decision?
(06:07:45 PM) geb: not for me
(06:07:47 PM) intrigeri: expected benefits: less noise for most users =>
they're more likely to read more important notifications; don't expose
low level tech details nobody cares about; tell users what they need to
know *when* they need it
(06:07:47 PM) anonym: please write something ASAP then!
(06:08:11 PM) intrigeri: OK, time's up, I'm out. AFK plans! Enjoy the
rest of your day, be it evening or anything else
(06:08:18 PM) intrigeri: cheers.
(06:08:22 PM) anonym: intrigeri: ta-ta!
(06:08:22 PM) geb: godd bye :)
(06:08:22 PM) nodens: bye intrigeri
(06:08:24 PM) masha: bye bye
(06:08:25 PM) segfault: bye
(06:08:31 PM) intrigeri left the room.
(06:09:20 PM) u: let's just report this on the ticket
(06:09:23 PM) anonym: DECISION: 1. we ensure the error dialog that
appears when starting Tor Browser before Tor is ready points the user to
what *exactly* they have to wait for (i.e. the Tor status icon in the
top bar to not be crossed anymore); 2. then we remove the "Synchronizing
the system's clock" notification; 3. #10491 will save the day in due
time. 4. Mark ticket as "Code", "low prio", not "easy" unless someone
documents exactly how to test this in a live Tails.
(06:09:30 PM) anonym: ok, meeting over!
(06:09:34 PM) u: i think we need to let UX experts review this proposal!
(06:09:41 PM) masha: cool
(06:09:47 PM) u: otherwise ack.
(06:09:48 PM) geb: +1 u
(06:09:49 PM) masha: you mean jaspeer?
(06:09:54 PM) u: and sajolida
(06:09:57 PM) masha: yep
(06:09:58 PM) segfault: i think it's obvious enough that this is better
UX than the current state
(06:10:01 PM) anonym: masha: jaster! :)
(06:10:05 PM) masha: sorry
(06:10:08 PM) u: haha
(06:10:10 PM) masha: not used to it yet
(06:10:17 PM) u: same here :)
(06:10:30 PM) nodens: I think I'm missing some context bits :)
(06:10:46 PM) segfault: ...but of course it would be nice if jaster had
a look at it
(06:10:46 PM) geb: same :)
(06:10:57 PM) u: nodens: indeed
(06:11:08 PM) u: :)
(06:11:09 PM) segfault: but i don't think this is a blocker
(06:11:12 PM) masha: got to go as well, see you
(06:11:22 PM) u: sajolida's silence makes me think otherwise.
(06:11:26 PM) u: see you!
(06:11:41 PM) masha left the room.
(06:11:41 PM) geb: i'll follow too, good bye folks, was nice to read you
(even if it was a bit hard to follow :))
(06:11:43 PM) segfault: i guess sajolida is just afk
(06:11:53 PM) sajolida: i'm not reading anymore and i'm working on the
notes
(06:12:03 PM) sajolida: but i can read a bit of log...
(06:12:14 PM) segfault: do you agree with the last decision?
(06:12:58 PM) sajolida: not really
(06:13:12 PM) sajolida: but really, i don't feel like spending that much
time on this
(06:13:15 PM) u: so it's not a decision.
(06:13:18 PM) sajolida: anyway... quickly my opinion
(06:15:08 PM) u: anyway, let's stop here
(06:15:13 PM) sajolida: yes, please
(06:15:19 PM) emmapeel: ok people till tomorrow!
(06:15:27 PM) emmapeel left the room.
(06:15:46 PM) nodens: you mean I can go home ? yay.
(06:16:17 PM) nodens: bye everyone ! :)
(06:16:30 PM) u: nodens: bye :)
(06:17:34 PM) sajolida: overall i don't think that your solution is
"obvisously" better and i'm not sure that the benefits outweight the
cost
especially taking into account that we have no data on how this
notification is understood or perceive but that it's not creating
problems right now (apart from "crying at the wolf" which I find
questionable here)
the sure thing is that changing this (without more data on how people
perceive thill* be extra work and *might* lead to more troubles (help
desk) down the road, especially if designed without users as we're doing
now
(06:18:05 PM) sajolida: s/creating problems/creating problems on our
help desk/ ← sorry to be to broad!
(06:18:23 PM) sajolida: anyway, i'm off!
(06:18:30 PM) u: ack. i actually don't remember where this "scary" thing
came from but i think it was a user who told us that
(06:18:48 PM) u: but as it's not noted in the ticket.. it can't be taken
for granted.
