(07:06:14 PM) segfault: OK then, welcome to the monthly meeting
(07:06:29 PM) segfault: the agenda is here: https://tails.boum.org/blueprint/monthly_meeting/
(07:06:38 PM) segfault: we start with "Volunteers to handle "Hole in the roof" tickets this month"
(07:07:07 PM) segfault: I won't take any this month
(07:07:15 PM) spriver: me neither
(07:07:28 PM) masha: me neither
(07:07:33 PM) anonym: I have a "zero commitments" policy still
(07:07:52 PM) lamby: (anonym! hey!!)
(07:08:01 PM) muri-pidgin: i won't take any roof-holes
(07:08:20 PM) lamby: Nor I; I need to push on with my currently plated tickets alas..
(07:08:27 PM) nodens left the room.
(07:08:29 PM) anonym: lamby: (hi!)
(07:08:49 PM) lamby: Hm, the haveged issue.. I shared that with a few folks in Debian and there was a discussion. I can't find it right now alas.
(07:09:00 PM) lamby: (#7102)
(07:09:00 PM) Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Feature #7102: Evaluate how safe haveged is in a virtualized environment - Tails - RiseupLabs Code Repository https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/7102
(07:10:23 PM) drwhax: there's multiple cryptographers who don't like userspace RNG tools, among them, tqbf, who has quite the opinion on this.
(07:10:36 PM) pablonatalino left the room (Disconnected: closed).
(07:10:52 PM) masha: so next?
(07:11:04 PM) pablonatalino entered the room.
(07:11:35 PM) segfault: next is "Volunteers to handle important tickets flagged for next release, but without assignee", but I fail to create the query for that
(07:11:47 PM) masha: won't take any :)
(07:12:01 PM) spriver: me neither
(07:12:04 PM) segfault: (I can't filter for Target Version, there are non to choose from)
(07:14:22 PM) segfault: OK, I think this is the query: https://labs.riseup.net/code/projects/tails/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&set_filter=1&f%5B%5D=status_id&op%5Bstatus_id%5D=%3D&v%5Bstatus_id%5D%5B%5D=1&v%5Bstatus_id%5D%5B%5D=9&v%5Bstatus_id%5D%5B%5D=7&f%5B%5D=fixed_version_id&op%5Bfixed_version_id%5D=%3D&v%5Bfixed_version_id%5D%5B%5D=308&f%5B%5D=assigned_to_id&op%5Bassigned_to_id%5D=%21*&f%5B%5D=&c%5B%5D=tracker&c%5B%5D=status&c%5B%5D=priority&c%5B%5D=subject&c%5B%5D=author&c%5B%5D=assigned_to&c%5B%5D=updated_on&c%5B%5D=cf_9&group_by=&t%5B%5D=
(07:14:25 PM) drwhax: anonym: I got an ISO!!!!
(07:14:33 PM) segfault: there is only one ticket, and that should be assigned to me actually
(07:14:38 PM) masha: ahah
(07:14:40 PM) masha: sorry
(07:14:42 PM) segfault: so next topic
(07:14:55 PM) segfault: Availability and plans until the next meeting
(07:15:28 PM) moire entered the room.
(07:15:30 PM) masha: almost none when not on shift
(07:15:36 PM) anonym: does not apply to me, yet
(07:15:41 PM) segfault: I will finish the last tickets for the VeraCrypt work, continue working on FT stuff, and probably already start with my USB image tickets
(07:15:45 PM) spriver: availability: quite much, plans: none yet, but let's see
(07:15:57 PM) pablonatalino left the room (Disconnected: closed).
(07:16:01 PM) drwhax: anonym: I got the same SHAAAAAAAAAAA
(07:16:13 PM) muri-pidgin: i'm available for very small tasks. i plan to take up the work i did on trying to build tails using gitlab-runner
(07:16:27 PM) drwhax: mine availability: none, i'm packed with too much other stuff.
(07:16:44 PM) anonym: drwhax: compared to which sha? (just double-checking)
(07:16:50 PM) masha: (emma: can I steal some of your flagged test?)
(07:17:06 PM) pablonatalino entered the room.
(07:17:16 PM) drwhax: anonym: compared to the iso I downloaded from dl.amnesia.boum.org, where I checked the sig and performed a sha1sum on.
(07:17:23 PM) emmapeel: masha: please go ahead and steal them all
(07:17:40 PM) anonym: (sorry for mixing in Tails 3.9.1 release work in the meeting)
(07:17:55 PM) drwhax: yes, sorry.
(07:18:01 PM) masha: (emmapeel: ok)
(07:18:25 PM) segfault: anyone else wants to write about their plans and availability?
(07:18:31 PM) lamby: My most-pressing concern is #15349 although I would also like to close-up/resolve #15187 as it's been a while (!).
(07:18:32 PM) Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Bug #15349: Migrate away from vmdebootstrap https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/15349
(07:18:33 PM) Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Bug #15187: fontconfig cache is not reproducible on Buster https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/15187
(07:18:38 PM) emmapeel: only thing i have in mind is checking the locales etc
(07:18:58 PM) emmapeel: specially for the new strings... there were some problems on the release
(07:19:06 PM) anonym: lamby: hah hah fontconfig again!
(07:19:08 PM) lamby: .. then I will move onto #15460. I have some Thunderbird/Javascript related tickets assigned to me but they are actually on hold.
(07:19:09 PM) Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Bug #15460: Test suite broken with Java 9+ https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/15460
(07:19:14 PM) lamby: anonym: Yeah!
(07:19:20 PM) emmapeel: also i will help the italians to get up to speed on weblate
(07:19:49 PM) anonym: lamby: oooh! I will greatly appreciate a fix for #15460!
(07:20:07 PM) muri-pidgin: ah, i'll also try to take another look at weblate
(07:20:29 PM) moire: Next week, I'll be working on the fundraising campaign
(07:20:32 PM) lamby: anonym: Same. Less-urgent than the vmdeboostrap issue as vmdeboostrap is pending removal from Debian (!)
(07:22:11 PM) lamby: (nothing more from me on this)
(07:22:14 PM) segfault: If everyone wrote their plans, the next topic is "Important missing bits in the next monthly report"
(07:22:30 PM) segfault: coordinator is u
(07:22:49 PM) anonym: who left
(07:23:17 PM) segfault: the draft looks empty:  https://tails.boum.org/blueprint/monthly_report/report_2018_10/
(07:23:30 PM) segfault: so please add your stuff if you have anything to report
(07:23:48 PM) muri-pidgin: isn't salolida the coordinator? sajolida sent a mail about the deadline being oct 10
(07:24:12 PM) segfault: I don't think I personally have anything to report, but I will check once I finished my bits for the SponsorW (VeraCrypt) report
(07:24:31 PM) segfault: https://tails.boum.org/blueprint/monthly_report/ says it's u for October
(07:24:49 PM) muri-pidgin: yeah, but its the report about september i think
(07:24:57 PM) emmapeel: September 2018: sajolida
(07:24:58 PM) segfault: oh yeah you're right
(07:25:31 PM) emmapeel: maybe i can add stuff about the tor meeting, even if it happened between the 29th and the 03
(07:25:56 PM) segfault: the September report draft: https://tails.boum.org/blueprint/monthly_report/report_2018_09/
(07:26:41 PM) segfault: and that's the last topic. The only discussion topic we skip because sajolida isn't here, who wanted to prepare it
(07:26:48 PM) emmapeel: pablonatalino fished a lot of content for the last report!!
(07:27:14 PM) emmapeel: pablonatalino: do you plan on doing more of that for next report? like the topics, etc....
(07:27:46 PM) pablonatalino: yes, i can help, but no alone
(07:28:24 PM) emmapeel: no, we can do like last time.... i can sort out the links and stuff but you can do the content edition :D
(07:28:36 PM) pablonatalino: ;)
(07:29:11 PM) muri-pidgin: so, i think we can wrap up the meeting?
(07:29:28 PM) segfault: yeah, if no one else wants to say something about the report, the meeting is finished
