(07:02:58 PM) intrigeri: I could facilitate.
(07:03:00 PM) muri-pidgin: i can take notes
(07:03:09 PM) intrigeri: excellent, let's get started then!
(07:03:14 PM) intrigeri: agenda is https://tails.boum.org/blueprint/monthly_meeting/
(07:03:31 PM) intrigeri: (I wanted to prepare 2 discussions but failed. Another time!)
(07:03:44 PM) intrigeri: topic: Volunteers to handle "Hole in the roof" tickets this month
(07:03:45 PM) carlosm2 entered the room.
(07:04:10 PM) u: not me
(07:04:15 PM) nodens: I won't be able to handle any of those
(07:04:35 PM) intrigeri: not me. I did my bits on #7102 last month and we're solving #12146 as we speak :)
(07:04:36 PM) Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Feature #7102: Evaluate how safe haveged is in a virtualized environment - Tails - Tails Ticket Tracker https://redmine.tails.boum.org/code/issues/7102
(07:04:36 PM) Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Bug #12146: Tails installed using dd is not seen as a bootable device on MacBook Pro - Tails - Tails Ticket Tracker https://redmine.tails.boum.org/code/issues/12146
(07:04:58 PM) emmapeel: i have added a little topic to the agenda!
(07:05:13 PM) muri-pidgin: i won't handle any hole in the roof this month
(07:05:34 PM) emmapeel: not me sorry
(07:06:12 PM) carlosm2: quick hi, here cacu from mexico
(07:06:24 PM) emmapeel: ey carlosm2!
(07:06:30 PM) intrigeri: anyone needs more time to tell?
(07:06:41 PM) cbrownstein: hi carlosm2!
(07:06:55 PM) moire entered the room.
(07:07:09 PM) moire: Hi,
(07:07:39 PM) carlosm2: :) 
(07:08:23 PM) intrigeri: OK, I guess those who did not reply implicitly mean "no". Next topic!
(07:08:31 PM) intrigeri: "Volunteers to handle important tickets flagged for next release, but without assignee"
(07:08:48 PM) intrigeri: i.e.:
(07:09:17 PM) intrigeri: https://redmine.tails.boum.org/code/projects/tails/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&set_filter=1&f%5B%5D=status_id&op%5Bstatus_id%5D=%21&v%5Bstatus_id%5D%5B%5D=11&v%5Bstatus_id%5D%5B%5D=3&v%5Bstatus_id%5D%5B%5D=10&v%5Bstatus_id%5D%5B%5D=5&f%5B%5D=fixed_version_id&op%5Bfixed_version_id%5D=%3D&v%5Bfixed_version_id%5D%5B%5D=305&f%5B%5D=assigned_to_id&op%5Bassigned_to_id%5D=%21*&f%5B%5D=&c%5B%5D=tracker&c%5B%5D=status&c%5B%5D=priority&c%5B%5D=subject&c%5B%5D=author&c%5B%5D=assigned_to&c%5B%5D=updated_on&c%5B%5D=cf_9&group_by=status&t%5B%5D=
(07:09:20 PM) intrigeri: that is:
(07:09:28 PM) intrigeri: #16169 and #16148
(07:09:29 PM) Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Bug #16169: Inconsistent "Tor is not ready" notification - Tails - Tails Ticket Tracker https://redmine.tails.boum.org/code/issues/16169
(07:09:30 PM) Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Bug #16148: ICMPv6 leaks detected by test suite - Tails - Tails Ticket Tracker https://redmine.tails.boum.org/code/issues/16148
(07:10:27 PM) intrigeri: both are dev tasks and in theory the FT should triage them. help is welcome, of course. they don't have assignee becuase they're up for being picked by any FT member with spare bandwidth.
(07:10:49 PM) intrigeri: so yeah, you've seen them, feel free to pick them. no need to discuss more now I guess.
(07:10:51 PM) intrigeri: ?
(07:10:54 PM) muri-pidgin: ack
(07:11:02 PM) emmapeel: so, they are kind of assigned then
(07:11:08 PM) u: ack
(07:11:15 PM) number entered the room.
(07:11:20 PM) intrigeri: yeah, kind of :))
(07:11:34 PM) intrigeri: next topic! Availability and plans until the next meeting
(07:11:41 PM) nodens: (I can possibly advise on #16148, will comment)
(07:11:48 PM) intrigeri: nodens: please do :)
(07:12:42 PM) intrigeri: availability: very little in December; my focus will be mostly outside of Tails and the little I'll put into Tails is already fully++ booked.
(07:13:14 PM) nodens: availability and plan until january: as low as the last 3  months... I'll keep an eye on bugs reports for openpgp-applet as upstream and can answer questions here and there, but no time for real work
(07:13:58 PM) emmapeel: i will try to finish my weblate bits
(07:14:09 PM) muri-pidgin: plans: i'll do the monthly report and i'll look at the great feedback gave on #14507 ;) and then i'll go to 35c3
(07:14:10 PM) Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Feature #14507: Have the monthly meeting reminder automatically avoid Fridays, Saturdays, and Sundays - Tails - Tails Ticket Tracker https://redmine.tails.boum.org/code/issues/14507
(07:14:26 PM) moire: availability: better than last month, until the 22nd, then mostly unavailable. Working on the donation campaign.
(07:15:29 PM) u: availability: i plan to take time off between christmas and new year's, until then work on debian and verification extension, but my schedule is fully packed
(07:15:40 PM) intrigeri: plans: whatever I'm needed for on the USB image project; ensure the changes at our major infra provider don't break too much of our stuff;  reproducible builds summit; help groente with the new sysadmin hiring process; get some holiday; take care of myself by procrastinating on useful volunteer Tails work that's been spotted as particularly urgent
(07:16:32 PM) intrigeri: s/been spotted/not been spotted/ !
(07:16:43 PM) intrigeri: (otherwise it's not good ol' structured procrastination!)
(07:17:12 PM) intrigeri: plans++: whatever is still needed to ensure AppArmor is enabled by default in Buster
(07:17:15 PM) emmapeel: hehehe i saw you on the ikiwiki_po plugin 
(07:17:52 PM) intrigeri: emmapeel: FTR, I think the only work I did there was FT or sponsor deliverable, not procrastination.
(07:18:03 PM) intrigeri: anyone else?
(07:18:19 PM) intrigeri: cbrownstein, carlosm2, geb?
(07:18:19 PM) emmapeel: ack!
(07:18:32 PM) geb: nothing to say, sorry, mostly reading
(07:18:46 PM) cbrownstein: i'm always available. :-)
(07:19:25 PM) intrigeri: emmapeel: (OT: example of procrastination = #15915, makes Tails boot 10s faster on a X200 :)
(07:19:25 PM) Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Bug #15915: Drop background readahead on boot - Tails - Tails Ticket Tracker https://redmine.tails.boum.org/code/issues/15915
(07:19:37 PM) intrigeri: OK, next topic then
(07:19:38 PM) number: hi :) availability: starting from january; plans: help soayoilida to review the html/css/js of the website.
(07:19:45 PM) intrigeri: tell me if I'm too fast!
(07:19:52 PM) carlosm2: nop, just geting in touch, hopefully soon can help more in tails
(07:19:54 PM) intrigeri: number: \o/
(07:19:59 PM) number: number aka ignifugo:)
(07:20:07 PM) nodens: ooooh
(07:20:17 PM) emmapeel: i see!
(07:20:20 PM) nodens: under cover !
(07:20:25 PM) nodens: :P
(07:20:34 PM) nodens: Hi number :)
(07:20:39 PM) emmapeel: hehehe remember when i met you i always called you incognito :D
(07:20:45 PM) intrigeri: carlosm2: we'll need feedback for the USB image project. it should make things much nicer for users but of course it will have problems initially :)
(07:21:02 PM) number: hahah ;)
(07:21:10 PM) carlosm2: ok, I'll look on this
(07:21:15 PM) intrigeri: next topic! Important missing bits in the next monthly report.
(07:21:30 PM) intrigeri: carlosm2: I thik we'll have something ready for testing in the 2nd half of December.
(07:21:31 PM) emmapeel: i suggest to give a push to the donation campaign on the report
(07:21:48 PM) intrigeri: yeah, let's try our best to make this report the sexiest ever
(07:22:00 PM) geb: good idea emma
(07:22:27 PM) intrigeri: muri-pidgin: I trust you to make it nicer than a dry list of bullet points :)
(07:22:37 PM) ***moire all for it!
(07:22:56 PM) muri-pidgin: i'll try to wrap up the report between 10th and 13th of dec, it would be great if you could add your points until then ;)
(07:23:22 PM) intrigeri: so, monthly report, well, you know the drill, add your bits, make them cool and nice to read and a good incentive to contribute somehow.
(07:24:02 PM) intrigeri: moire: will you add somethig about the campaign, e.g. with links to the corresponding blog posts, maybe on top of the report? ("just an idea", as someone would say :)
(07:24:43 PM) muri-pidgin: <blink>donate!</blink>
(07:24:47 PM) intrigeri: background info: this report reaches audiences our other material does not, e.g. LWN readers.
(07:24:55 PM) moire: sure
(07:25:10 PM) intrigeri: (I bet lots of them have money and just don't know yet that they should give it to us.)
(07:25:58 PM) intrigeri: anything else the report should include and you won't add yourself?
(07:26:03 PM) kurono left the room.
(07:27:13 PM) intrigeri: OK, next topic then. shout if I'm too fast.
(07:27:16 PM) moire: muri-pidgin: I'll have a look at previous reports and see where I can add campaigning bits.
(07:27:16 PM) intrigeri: " FOSDEM. Aybody attending? Booth? "
(07:27:51 PM) intrigeri: https://fosdem.org/2019/ Feb 2-3, Brussels
(07:28:00 PM) emmapeel: yes sorry that is my topic
(07:28:21 PM) emmapeel: i was wondering if we are attending and maybe if somebody knows if the booth with nsoignons etc is hapenning
(07:28:46 PM) moire: I'll be there, don't know about nosoignons/etc.
(07:28:47 PM) geb: the person of nos oignons told me he will be unable to handle the booth this year
(07:28:55 PM) u: i might be going there
(07:28:58 PM) intrigeri: undecided. no idea about a booth and I won't organize it, but if I'm there I will take a shift or two there.
(07:29:07 PM) nodens: I probably won't go, and if I do I'll probably have a $dayjob hat on
(07:29:24 PM) number: I'll probably go to the fosdem, but not completly sure
(07:29:32 PM) nodens: so I'll say hi but I won't appear as a contributor ;)
(07:29:38 PM) intrigeri: wrt. booth: there's been something about this in some recent Tor Vegas team meeting notes. I think they're wondering exactly the same as us. Should coordinate if we want to do something.
(07:29:45 PM) emmapeel: im attending i think...
(07:30:20 PM) emmapeel: yes, they are seeing abut this too. a lot of people frm torproject is attending
(07:30:21 PM) muri-pidgin: i've not thought about fosdem yet, but i'm intrigued and i probably have time
(07:30:21 PM) intrigeri: reminder: https://tails.boum.org/contribute/sponsorship_to_attend_events/ 
(07:30:27 PM) geb: emmapeel: as the person of nos oignons did not ask for a booth, somebody may have to ask for it, if you want to do one (if its not too late ?)
(07:30:48 PM) emmapeel: i think somepeople from tor asked for one, we could jump on theirs
(07:30:59 PM) emmapeel: i can check that with stephw
(07:31:07 PM) emmapeel: i would then go and make some shifts too
(07:31:23 PM) intrigeri: deadline for booths was Nov 2, apparently https://fosdem.org/2019/news/2018-08-10-call-for-participation/
(07:31:34 PM) intrigeri: unless that's another thing than "stands".
(07:32:14 PM) intrigeri: https://submission.fosdem.org/stands.php says "Submissions are now closed for 2019."
(07:32:30 PM) emmapeel: what do you think about my proposal to check with stephw in tor about their booth?
(07:33:03 PM) emmapeel: (you as in everybody)
(07:33:14 PM) geb: sounds good :)
(07:33:26 PM) intrigeri: if tor has a booth and we have enough people who can commit to give a hand, yeah, let's share it with us.
(07:33:29 PM) intrigeri: s/us/them/
(07:33:48 PM) moire: +1
(07:34:26 PM) number: for me is nice and if I'll be at the fosdem; I can also help at the desk like last year :P
(07:35:35 PM) intrigeri: looks like nobody has major concerns with this proposal → accepted! thanks emmapeel :)
(07:35:41 PM) emmapeel: ok ill do that then
(07:35:56 PM) intrigeri: emmapeel: anything else FOSDEMy you wanted to discuss?
(07:36:17 PM) emmapeel: not really well i thought maybe somebody was giving a talk or something.
(07:36:18 PM) number: the room of opensourcedesign extended the time to applicate for a talk and if someone isinterested ..
(07:36:50 PM) intrigeri left the room.
(07:36:56 PM) number: until 8 of dic
(07:37:10 PM) intrigeri entered the room.
(07:37:30 PM) intrigeri: number: hmm, too early for me to go back under the spotlights of a talk stage.
(07:38:23 PM) intrigeri: (still somewhat traumatized from having canceled my keynote at CryptoRave 2017)
(07:38:37 PM) number: I was proposing if someone of UX is interested..
(07:38:38 PM) geb: there would be other occasions intrigeri :)
(07:39:08 PM) intrigeri: number: then I suggest you tell sajolida about it :)
(07:39:29 PM) number: intrigeri: :) yes sure
(07:40:49 PM) intrigeri: (I was talking about myself because I think that a developer's perspective about "how UX design is great and helps dev work when properly coordinated" and/or "usability is a security feature", which I still want to give talks about, could be relevant and useful in that devroom)
(07:41:00 PM) intrigeri: meeting over, then.
