[[!meta title="Agenda for the next contributors meeting"]]

Official place and date are [[in the calendar|contribute/calendar]].

Availability and plans for the next weeks
=========================================

  - Volunteers to handle "[Hole in the
    roof](https://labs.riseup.net/code/versions/198)" tickets this
    month
  - Volunteers to handle important [tickets flagged for next release,
    but without assignee](https://labs.riseup.net/code/projects/tails/issues?query_id=226)
  - Availability and plans until the next meeting
  - Important missing bits in the next [[monthly report|blueprint/monthly_report]].

Discussions
===========

* [[!tails_ticket 11717 desc="Consider dropping launchers from the Desktop"]]
* [[!tails_ticket 11615 desc="What about keybase.io?"]]
* [[!tails_ticket 11663 desc="Clarifying the scope of hardware support"]]
* [[!tails_ticket 11775 desc="Decide when to close down tails-support"]]
* [[!tails_ticket 11767 desc="Gender neutral translations in German: discuss MITM"]]
