(18:00:26) intrigeri: meeting time!
(18:00:31) intrigeri: I volunteer to take notes
(18:00:36) masha: cool.
(18:00:36) intrigeri: masha: would you host/facilitate?
(18:00:43) intrigeri: who's here for the meeting?
(18:00:52) masha: well why not, I just want to get the agenda first
(18:00:53) nodens: .o/
(18:01:00) intrigeri: agenda & link to doc: https://tails.boum.org/blueprint/monthly_meeting/
(18:01:33) muri: i'm here, but mostly readonly (too much other stuff to do atm)
(18:02:52) masha: I can *try* to facilitate
(18:03:08) masha: but are we only like 3 active ones attending before jvoisin joins?
(18:03:37) dachary: I'm attending too but lurking mostly 
(18:03:37) nodens: apparently...
(18:03:49) casact entered the room.
(18:04:09) intrigeri: masha:  apparently yes. not that bad. every decision can be revisited anyway.
(18:04:19) masha: ok, so let's go with "Availability and plans for the next weeks"
(18:04:25) intrigeri: masha: + 2 lurkers, who might end up participating ;)
(18:04:41) casact: i am new. just lurking for now. 
(18:04:49) intrigeri: casact: welcome!
(18:05:05) casact: Thank you. you all seem like nice people. 
(18:05:17) nodens: welcome casact :) 
(18:05:32) masha: casact: we are indeed :)
(18:05:33) intrigeri: availability: mostly at work, except I'll take a week off at some point, probably this month (was supposed to be now but I came back from 34C3 full of energy so postponed holiday)
(18:06:21) flapflap entered the room.
(18:06:22) masha: availability: Im' doing 2 weeks of help desk since january 1st so I'll be quite often online and following what's going one, but will be mostly offline and busy after that for about 10 days.
(18:07:47) intrigeri: plans: deal with the Intel security issue + Linux workaround, complete #15092, planning for #11834 & #11680, and keep working on our 2018Q2→2019Q1 budget forecasting (currently: #12711, soon: #12712)
(18:07:48) nodens: availability: unknown, because I've not gone back to work yet and it might be hectic. Plans: will migrate openpgp-applet repo and tickets to salsa.debian.org (at least tentatively since it's still beta). Also have non-Tails related debian work to do.
(18:08:08) intrigeri: muri: could you please poke Tailsbot?
(18:08:23) Tailsbot entered the room.
(18:08:30) intrigeri: \o/
(18:08:35) intrigeri: OK, repost time:
(18:08:37) nodens: I'll try to find time and energy to work on #8447
(18:08:37) intrigeri: plans: deal with the Intel security issue + Linux workaround, complete #15092, planning for #11834 & #11680, and keep working on our 2018Q2→2019Q1 budget forecasting (currently: #12711, soon: #12712)
(18:08:38) Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Bug #8447: Persistent data is not erased when persistence features are disabled https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/8447
(18:08:38) Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Bug #15092: Update our 2018 release schedule wrt. new Firefox ESR plans https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/15092
(18:08:39) Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Feature #11834: Migrate our infrastructure to Puppet 4 https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/11834
(18:08:40) Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Bug #11680: Upgrade server hardware (2017-2019 edition) https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/11680
(18:08:40) Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Feature #12711: Zoom into potential issues wrt. our 2018Q2 → 2019Q1 budget forecasting https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/12711
(18:08:41) Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Feature #12712: Sanity check the big picture of our 2018Q2 → 2019Q1 budget forecasting and make it work for teams and individuals https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/12712
(18:08:49) intrigeri: (for note taking's sake)
(18:09:01) intrigeri: nodens: cool!
(18:09:24) intrigeri: plans++ deal with the death of Alioth → salsa.debian.org too.
(18:09:42) intrigeri: (and some AppArmor in Debian stuff, when I feel like I need to do non-Tails stuff :)
(18:10:13) dachary: plans: make progress on pdf-redact-tools #15052
(18:10:13) Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Feature #15052: Adding pdf-redact-tools https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/15052
(18:10:19) intrigeri: dachary: \o/
(18:10:26) intrigeri: dachary: almost there!
(18:10:38) dachary: :-D
(18:10:41) muri: plans: coordinate monthly report ;)
(18:11:21) masha: cool
(18:11:31) masha: are we done with this?
(18:11:36) dagda entered the room.
(18:11:49) intrigeri: I am.
(18:11:53) nodens: me too
(18:12:08) intrigeri: dagda: welcome! agenda is https://tails.boum.org/blueprint/monthly_meeting/
(18:13:03) masha: so let's continue with "Volunteers to handle "Hole in the roof" tickets this month"?
(18:13:40) masha: I'm not taking any of these...
(18:13:54) ***jvoisin is here
(18:14:28) intrigeri: I failed to triage the one I took last month. But yesterday I triaged #8897. That'll be all for January.
(18:14:28) Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Bug #8897: The link to persistence documentation in tails-persistence-setup doesn't trigger any user-visible action https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/8897
(18:15:44) intrigeri: nodens already said he'll try to find time/energy to work on #8447
(18:15:45) masha: any takers for these holes?
(18:15:45) Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Bug #8447: Persistent data is not erased when persistence features are disabled https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/8447
(18:16:34) masha: can we go forward?
(18:16:53) intrigeri: masha: yes. I doubt newcomers can deal with those, they're not good starter tickets generally.
(18:16:59) masha: next topic is "Volunteers to handle important tickets flagged for next release, but without assignee"
(18:17:02) masha: intrigeri: sure
(18:17:26) intrigeri: https://labs.riseup.net/code/projects/tails/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&set_filter=1&f%5B%5D=fixed_version_id&op%5Bfixed_version_id%5D=%3D&v%5Bfixed_version_id%5D%5B%5D=297&f%5B%5D=status_id&op%5Bstatus_id%5D=o&f%5B%5D=assigned_to_id&op%5Bassigned_to_id%5D=%21*&f%5B%5D=&c%5B%5D=priority&c%5B%5D=subject&c%5B%5D=category&c%5B%5D=cf_15&c%5B%5D=assigned_to&c%5B%5D=cf_9&group_by=status&t%5B%5D=
(18:18:05) masha: I won't add any of these on my plate
(18:18:10) masha: strict diet
(18:18:25) intrigeri: masha: triaging #15136 is already on your plate, no?
(18:18:26) Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Bug #15136: totem: broken streaming https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/15136
(18:19:00) masha: according to it's creation date it's on emmapeel's plate
(18:19:05) intrigeri: so, #14503 and #14507 were things anonym committed to do at the summit, but he had to drop the ball.
(18:19:06) Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Feature #14503: Send proposals for Monthly Meetings fixes to tails-project@ https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/14503
(18:19:07) Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Feature #14507: Have the monthly meeting reminder automatically avoid Fridays, Saturdays, and Sundays https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/14507
(18:19:33) intrigeri: masha: OK, whatever. as long as you, as a team, deal with it, I don't care about the individual responsibility stuff :)
(18:19:56) masha: yep
(18:20:04) intrigeri: for once, I'm not going to magically take over these 2 things from anonym's plate.
(18:20:26) intrigeri: too bad, it was a good attempt at sharing more the self-management aspect of our collective.
(18:20:48) intrigeri: I propose we raise this issue on the private tails-summit@ list, calling for a volunteer to handle these 2 things.
(18:21:24) masha: ok, good idea
(18:21:36) dagda: sorry guys, I'm a new tails user, I wan tot help but my programming is not that good
(18:21:45) intrigeri: actually, #14507 is public stuff so for that one we can ask for help on -project@
(18:21:51) dagda: Looked at those tasks but can't really help with any of them
(18:22:19) intrigeri: dagda: let's talk about this later then :)  ("The meeting might not be the most adequate time and place to properly introduce newcomers to the development process, but at least it should be a fine place to know each other, and schedule a better suited event." on https://tails.boum.org/contribute/meetings/)
(18:22:36) intrigeri: I'll send the call for help.
(18:23:02) nodens: (not a ruby person, won't be able to help on the reminder one)
(18:23:43) masha: are we good with this topic?
(18:24:29) intrigeri: the last such ticket is #15107, that bertagaz created with target version = 3.5 with an enigmatic message wrt. whether he felt responsible for it, and then he started working on it but did not assign it to himself. I propose we drop the target version, suggesting bertagaz to assign it to himself if he's taking responsibility for it.
(18:24:30) Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Feature #15107: Add option to specify which APT snapshot serial to use during build https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/15107
(18:25:56) masha: ok for your proposal.
(18:25:57) masha: next is "Important missing bits in the next monthly report."
(18:27:04) nodens: there should probably be something about 34c3 on it ;)
(18:27:33) intrigeri: I've added my bits.
(18:27:42) intrigeri: muri: monthly report topic just started, FYI
(18:27:52) intrigeri: nodens: good idea! add it? :)
(18:28:50) nodens: I can draft it at least, when is the deadline ? 
(18:28:57) ***nodens checks his emails
(18:29:42) muri: there is no fixed deadline for the monthly report i think
(18:30:15) muri: i guess i'll try to wrap it up on the 15th
(18:30:18) nodens: if it's after the 11th I can probably find enough time to do that.
(18:30:19) nodens: ok
(18:30:24) muri: ah, make that 14th
(18:30:32) muri: oke ;)
(18:30:37) masha: I'll send a reminder to my mates about important issues that were reported during december
(18:31:44) masha: next, discuss #11082 ?
(18:31:45) Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Bug #11082: Replace Liferea https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/11082
(18:32:42) intrigeri: wait wait wait
(18:32:42) casact: I wont shed a tear. 
(18:32:49) intrigeri: no need to read the entire ticket.
(18:32:57) intrigeri: the topic I added is https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/11082#note-11 (and following comments)
(18:33:16) intrigeri: so please take your time, read this, no rush, and then we can talk.
(18:33:31) drebs left the room.
(18:34:26) drebs entered the room.
(18:37:39) intrigeri: my current proposal is on the last comment.
(18:37:51) masha: OK, I'm fine with this proposal (11082#note-16
(18:37:56) masha: whoops
(18:38:02) intrigeri: I think I've weighted enough so for now I'll try to shut up but I can answer questions :)
(18:38:02) masha: well last proposal
(18:38:05) nodens: I'm not sure many people actually use RSS feeds nowadays, but I'll support replacing liferea because of the "It's basically another browser". I'm OK with the plan, but I'm not sure I agree with liferea being as much at risk regarding the security issue in question, since it only does RSS and not emails.
(18:38:28) casact: here is one person who uses it in tails a lot, i check 2 feeds for 10 minutes or so every morning. But any more then that and its so slow its unusable. 
(18:38:41) nodens: (anyway the plan takes that into account so I'm ok with it)
(18:38:52) masha: with my help desk hat, I can tell for sure that I don't remember any email from users concerning liferea, so either it works perfectly, either...
(18:39:10) casact: it deffinitly does not work perfectly. 
(18:39:29) masha: well I can remember one, about liferea freezing everything and taking 100% CPu power at launch
(18:40:05) intrigeri: masha: https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/9989 I guess.
(18:40:06) Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Bug #9989: Liferea freezes at startup https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/9989
(18:40:35) masha: yep, 2 years ago...
(18:40:39) intrigeri: nodens: wrt. security: it does not do email but if it gets exploited, it has access to everything in $HOME.
(18:42:39) intrigeri: nodens: I agree wrt. RSS/Atom feed popularity these days, probably only old school people like me still use this and not Twitter :)
(18:42:53) muri: i'm also oke with the proposal
(18:42:55) nodens: will we ship TB 59 in 3.5 ?
(18:42:58) intrigeri: (at least I stopped doing RSS in Emacs :)
(18:43:08) muri: juhu, i'm oldscool ;)
(18:43:26) intrigeri: nodens: we ship Thunderbird ESR. likely the next one will be Thunderbird 60.
(18:43:27) nodens: (so that we don't suggest migrating to a vulnerable tool)
(18:44:10) intrigeri: aaah, I didn't update the "please migrate your feeds to Thunderbird" part, sorry!
(18:44:16) nodens: ok that's my issue with the plan then, do we suggest user migrate to something we suspect is vulnerable ?
(18:44:17) masha: does it look like a decision then?
(18:44:18) nodens: ha
(18:44:30) intrigeri: masha: wait, there's a bug in the proposal :)
(18:44:43) intrigeri: updated proposal:
(18:45:31) intrigeri: in the first Tails release that switches to the next Thunderbird ESR (likely 60), we wrap Liferea to display "Liferea is going away, please migrate your feeds to Thunderbird"; in the following release (or N+2, whatever) we remove Liferea, drop it from the list of features, add feed reading to the list of Thunderbird features on doc/about/features, and close #7626.
(18:45:32) Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Feature #7626: Investigate using Thunderbird & TorBirdy as the RSS reader https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/7626
(18:45:38) intrigeri: what do you think?
(18:45:43) nodens: ACK
(18:45:53) intrigeri: (there's no rush, really, I just want a plan that's for 2018 and not for "some day" :)
(18:46:09) muri: +1 for the updated proposal
(18:46:22) dachary: +1 for the updated proposal
(18:46:39) masha: +1
(18:47:28) masha: this time it looks like a consensus
(18:47:57) intrigeri: :)
(18:48:03) masha: next one ? it would be #14581
(18:48:04) Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Feature #14581: Install caff (signing-party) by default https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/14581
(18:48:20) masha: we only have 12min left by the way
(18:48:57) intrigeri: (again, I prepared the discussion so I'll try to shut up)
(18:49:54) intrigeri: (full disclosure: infinity0 is a fellow Debian + Tor person, IMO the kind of power-users who might become contributors, and I want to satisfy their use cases whenever it's super cheap)
(18:50:05) segfault entered the room.
(18:50:21) jvoisin: sounds like a nice idea
(18:51:03) masha: yep, I don't why I would be against
(18:51:07) intrigeri: I'm unsure personally, due to the "Once the Additional Software Packages feature works well offline (#14570) […]" point.
(18:51:08) Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Feature #14570: Implement Offline Mode for Additional Software Packages https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/14570
(18:51:18) masha: hum
(18:51:29) nodens: I was about to say it may not be worth it if #14570 is fixed soon, since it's a corner case, but if it's cheap and can bribe someone into contributing I'll just shut up :D
(18:51:55) intrigeri: #14570 shall be fixed real soon now. it's a sponsor deliverable. we don't really have a choice.
(18:52:41) intrigeri: nodens: honestly I doubt infinity0 will start contributing but more generally, developers concerned about their OpenPGP key
(18:52:48) nodens: + I think it's a nice corner case to support (offline keysigning)
(18:53:02) intrigeri: … and who might want to use Tails for offline key management, are good candidates for becoming Tails contributors :)
(18:54:38) muri: the download size of 800kb is not really relevant, is it? its the size on disk of 23MB thats more relevant for tails?
(18:54:57) ***intrigeri hesitates between "wait for #14570 and ask infinity0 to try Additional Software Packages" and "well, just ship it".
(18:55:36) intrigeri: muri: nope. what matters is the compressed size (for ISO downloads etc.), and the compressed .deb's size is closer to the impact on the ISO size than the unpacked 23MB.
(18:55:45) intrigeri: (same for incremental upgrades)
(18:55:50) intrigeri: muri: or did I miss something?
(18:56:17) intrigeri: (we've been using this heuristics forever when considering adding new packages, so I'd really like to make sure we were not mistaken this whole time :)
(18:56:32) muri: intrigeri: ah, oke, thanks for making that clear, i wasn't sure
(18:56:56) intrigeri: muri: almost everything is in a SquashFS inside the ISO9660 filesystem.
(18:57:37) masha: (3min left to take a decision)
(18:58:16) muri: in that case i'm oke with shipping it, although i still hope there will be a gui for that task someday ;)
(18:59:54) intrigeri: looks like nobody has a strong opinion
(18:59:58) nodens: it definitely fits in the field of what Tails should be good at, IMO, that is, "make it easier to handle security and privacy"
(18:59:58) masha: I don't have a strong opinion on this one
(19:00:00) masha: yep
(19:00:24) nodens: so I don't have a strong opinion but it's angling toward "let's ship it"
(19:00:31) nodens: slightly.
(19:00:36) masha: it's been asked 4 months ago, how long will it take to have this #14570 done?
(19:00:42) intrigeri: Then I propose we wait for #14570 then I try it myself *without* caff in the ISO, if happy I ask infinity0 to do the same, and then we see?
(19:00:59) intrigeri: masha: Alan is committed to finish it in time for the next release, this month.
(19:01:11) masha: ok, then let's wait for this first
(19:01:24) masha: this is my proposal, anyone against? :)
(19:02:15) masha: (I'm starving)
(19:02:16) ***dachary looks at the birds outside the room
(19:02:27) jvoisin: :)
(19:02:32) nodens: works for me.
(19:03:00) intrigeri: got to go, bye!
(19:03:05) intrigeri: I'll publish the notes etc. tomorrow.
(19:03:05) nodens: (and we're out of time)
(19:03:31) nodens: bye everyone, thanks for the productive meeting :)
(19:03:33) dachary: bye everyone ! 
(19:03:48) jvoisin: o/
(19:03:51) masha: bye !
(19:03:53) masha: thanks
