[[!meta title="November 2017 online meeting"]]

[[!toc levels=2]]

# Meta

- Attendees: drwhax, emmapeel, geb, intrigeri, masha, muri, nodens, sajolida, segfault, spriver

- [[Logs|201711/logs.txt]]

# Volunteers to handle "Hole in the roof" tickets this month

- [[!tails_ticket 8447 desc="Persistent data is not erased when persistence features are disabled"]]: still on nodens' plate
- no one is available to commit on more stuff
- sajolida has "find another way to handle HITR tickets" high on it's TODO list

# Availability and Plans until the next meeting
- masha:
    - nothing in particular beside help desks shifts + assigned tickets
- emmapeel:
    - moving, so a bit away. Back on Front Desk on November 27th.
- intrigeri:
    - this week: whatever I have to do to make 3.3 exist as a good Tails release;
    - next week: OTF summit.
    - Then some non-Tails work. In other words, I'll be do the bare
      minimum to keep the boat afloat but don't count on me too much.
- spriver:
    - Definitely will do some German translation and the usual release
      testing.
    - started working on [[!tails_ticket 14504 desc="Investigate mobile messaging platforms"]]
      and [[!tails_ticket 10181 desc="Non-discriminatory language - German"]]
- segfault:
    - will continue working on the VeraCrypt stuff
    - also try to work through some of the other stuff i committed to
- nodens:
  - availability is a moving beast these times for me ($dayjob is hard
    to predict).
  - Plans: more debian stuff and [[!tails_ticket 8447 desc="Persistent
    data is not erased when persistence features are disabled"]]
- drwhax:
    - hope to actually work on some of the randomness tickets this month
    - next week: at the OTF summit.
- sajolida:
    - Finish the work on the new download page and verification extension; hopefully... somehow...
    - Do fun UX stuff as I'm under-clocked on this budget line (breaking news: under-clocking happens!)
    - Catch up with a bunch of technical writing reviews and tiny stuff
    - Prepare the VeraCrypt UX sprint in December

# Volunteers to handle important tickets flagged for next release, but without assignee

There are no such tickets.

# Important missing bits in the next monthly report

Intrigeri needs one more day to add his part

# Tickets flagged for Discussions in the blueprint

There are no such tickets.

# Other tickets
## [[!tails_ticket 14808 desc="OpenPGP Applet should display long keyid (or even only FP)"]]

### Problem description:

Currently OpenPGP applet show hex key id (short) in pub key selection.
The Fingerprints are shown as mouse-over. The mouse-over will probably
go in the not to distant future.

### Discussion summary:
- It's not used for key verification, only disambiguation.
- user should not rely on id for verification (any id).
- seahorse-tool show short key id
- Fingerprint here would be confusing.

### Decision:
Since seahorse-tool show short key id, we should stick with that, or,
preferably, display no id at all. Then we would show the key creation
date for disambiguation.

## [[!tails_ticket 6387 desc="Create screencast videos of installing Tails onto a USB stick"]]

### Problem description:

Comment #18 on the ticket. In short: do we really want this, seeing that
it's not easy to do correctly ?

### Discussion summary:
- we don't have the manpower / skills to do that ourselves and maintain
  such screencasts (not even talking about making it translatable)
- we can rely on other people work, like the video from
  Infosec/Bytes/CIJ:
  https://youtu.be/8NXvsWRcSns?list=PLOZKbRUo9H_qXgyGp5UVYCoGQYo9YB5E8&t=308
- it could be useful for some stuff, for instance the FAT32 vs
  NTFS problems

### Decision:

Reject this ticket. We acknowledge that such videos could be useful, but
we can't maintain them ourselves


