[[!meta title="October 2018 online meeting"]]

[[!toc levels=2]]

# Meta

- Attendees: segfault (facilitator), emmapeel, masha, pablonatalino, anonym, lamby, drwhax, spriver, moire, muri (notetaker)

- [[Logs|201810/logs.txt]]

# Volunteers to handle "Hole in the roof" tickets this month

- no volunteers for any of the tickets


# Volunteers to handle important tickets flagged for next release, but without assignee

- there was only one ticket, which should have been assigned to segfault

# Availability and plans until the next meeting

- masha: almost none, when not on shift
- segfault: will finish the last tickets for the VeraCrypt work, continue working on FT stuff, and probably already start with their USB image tickets
- spriver: availability: quite much, plans: none yet, but let's see
- muri: available for small tasks, wants to take another look at building tails in gitlab-runner and another look at webliate
- lambys most-pressing concern is [[!tails_ticket 15349 desc="Migrate away from
  vmdebootstrap"]] although they would also like to close-up/resolve
  [[!tails_ticket 15187 desc="fontconfig cache is not reproducible on Buster"]]
  as it's been a while; then they will move onto [[!tails_ticket 15460 desc="Test suite broken with Java 9+"]]
- emmapeel: wants to check the locales, as there have been problems on the release
- moire: will be working on the fundraising campaign

# Important missing bits in the next monthly report

- nothing at the moment, the deadline is the 10th of october
