[[!meta title="December 2018 online meeting"]]

[[!toc levels=2]]

# Meta

- Attendees: intrigeri (facilitator), emmapeel, moire, muri (notetaker), u,
  nodens, carlosm2, cbrownstein, number, geb

- [[Logs|201812/logs.txt]]

# Volunteers to handle "Hole in the roof" tickets this month

- no volunteers for any of the tickets


# Volunteers to handle important tickets flagged for next release, but without assignee

- [[!tails_ticket 16169]] and [[!tails_ticket 16148]] are dev tasks and in
  theory the FT should triage them. help is welcome, of course. they don't have
  assignee becuase they're up for being picked by any FT member with spare
  bandwidth

# Availability and plans until the next meeting

- intrigeri: availability: very little in December; my focus will be mostly
  outside of Tails and the little I'll put into Tails is already fully++
  booked. plans: whatever I'm needed for on the USB image project; ensure the
  changes at our major infra provider don't break too much of our stuff;
  reproducible builds summit; help groente with the new sysadmin hiring process;
  get some holiday; take care of myself by procrastinating on useful volunteer
  Tails work that's not been spotted as particularly urgent; plans++: whatever is
  still needed to ensure AppArmor is enabled by default in Buster
- nodens: availability and plan until january: as low as the last 3  months...
  I'll keep an eye on bugs reports for openpgp-applet as upstream and can
  answer questions here and there, but no time for real work
- emmapeel: will try to finish their weblate bits
- muri: plans: i'll do the monthly report and i'll look at the great feedback
  intrigeri gave on [[!tails_ticket 14507]] ;) and then i'll go to 35c3
- moire: availability: better than last month, until the 22nd, then mostly
  unavailable. Working on the donation campaign.
- u: availability: i plan to take time off between christmas and new year's,
  until then work on debian and verification extension, but my schedule is
  fully packed
- cbrownstein: i'm always available. :-)
- number: availability: starting from january; plans: help soayoilida to review
  the html/css/js of the website.

# Important missing bits in the next monthly report

- the deadline is between dec 10th and 13th, emmapeel suggests to give a push
  to the donation campaign on the report; moire will have a look at previous
  reports and see where they can add campaigning bits

# FOSDEM

[FOSDEM](https://fosdem.org/2019/) is Feb 2-3 in Brussels;
emmapeel was wondering if we are attending and maybe if somebody knows if a
booth with nsoignons etc is hapenning; emmapeel will check with a person from
tor if we could join their booth.
intrigeri points out the [[sponsorship to attend
events|contribute/sponsorship_to_attend_events/]]
