[[!meta title="September 2018 online meeting"]]

[[!toc levels=2]]

# Meta

- Attendees: u, emmapeel, intrigeri (facilitator), spriver, lamby, cbrownstein, kibi, muri

- [[Logs|201809/logs.txt]]

# Volunteers to handle "Hole in the roof" tickets this month

- [[!tails_ticket 12146 desc="Tails installed using dd is not seen as a bootable device on MacBook Pro"]] will be done by segfault as part of the usb image project

- [[!tails_ticket 7102 desc="Evaluate how safe haveged is in a virtualized environment"]] landed back on intris plate


# Volunteers to handle important tickets flagged for next release, but without assignee

- u will check with alan about [[!tails_ticket 15567 desc="Fix bugs and UX issues in the Additional Software beta"]]

- [[!tails_ticket 15895 desc="Remove some of our predefined bookmarks"]] will be assigned to sajolida

# Availability and plans until the next meeting

- spriver: availability: quite yes, plans: not really atm
- emmapeel: gill be travelling next month... not sure if i will be around much
- intrigeri: plans: release 3.9 and deal with its fallout, write VeraCrypt auto tests for the OTF contract, deal with day-to-day stuff, process some of the summit output, have some week-end time, sysadmin team sprint, Tor meeting in MEX.
- kibi: availability: I'll try to process anything getting assigned to me
- u: availability: well... busy busy busy but i am here and will do some tails work this month
- cbrownstein: availability: i'm available. plans: close the elevated tickets currently assigned to me
- lamby: Availability: sketchy. Plans: The vmdebootstrap RM bug was finally filed, so I will prioritise migration a bit higher here

# Important missing bits in the next monthly report

- muri will add the summit
