[[!meta title="January 2018 online meeting"]]

[[!toc levels=2]]

# Meta

- Attendees: dachary, intrigeri, jvoisin, mercedes508, muri, nodens
- Actively lurking: casact

- [[Logs|201801/log.txt]]

# Volunteers to handle "Hole in the roof" tickets this month

* intrigeri failed to triage the one he took last month
  ([[!tails_ticket 10987]]) and will try again. Yesterday
  he triaged [[!tails_ticket 8897]]. That'll be all for January.
* nodens will try again to find time/energy to work on [[!tails_ticket 8447]].

# Volunteers to handle important tickets flagged for next release, but without assignee

* intrigeri will call for help about [[!tails_ticket 14503]] and
  [[!tails_ticket 14507]].
* We removed the _Target version_ of [[!tails_ticket 15107]] because
  at this point it's unclear whether bertagaz is taking responsibility
  for doing it in time for Tails 3.5.

# Availability and plans until the next meeting

* dachary: make progress on pdf-redact-tools ([[!tails_ticket 15052]])
* intrigeri: mostly at work, except I'll take a week off at some
  point, probably this month; deal with the Intel security issue +
  Linux workaround, complete [[!tails_ticket 15092]], planning for
  [[!tails_ticket 11834]] and [[!tails_ticket 11680]], and keep
  working on our 2018Q2→2019Q1 budget forecasting (currently:
  [[!tails_ticket 12711]], soon: [[!tails_ticket 12712]]).
* mercedes508: 2 weeks of help desk since January 1st so quite often
  online and following what's going on; will be mostly offline and
  busy after that for about 10 days.
* muri: coordinate the monthly report.
* nodens: availability unknown so far, potentially hectic times;
  migrate openpgp-applet from Alioth to salsa.debian.org, plus some
  more non-Tails-related Debian work.

# Important missing bits in the next monthly report

* nodens will draft something about 34C3.
* mercedes508 will remind his team-mates about adding hot Help Desk topics.
* muri will wrap up the report around January 15.

# [[!tails_ticket 11082#note-11 desc="Replace Liferea"]]

casact reports about their usage of _Liferea_ in Tails:: "I check
2 feeds for 10 minutes or so every morning. But any more then that and
its so slow its unusable."

mercedes508, with his Help Desk hat, does not remember any email from
users about _Liferea_.

nodens is not sure he agrees with _Liferea_ being as much at risk
regarding the security issue in question, since it only does RSS and
not email; but supports replacing _Liferea_ because of the "it's
basically another browser" argument.

We identified a bug in the proposal, fixed it and decided:

1. In the first Tails release that switches to the next Thunderbird
   ESR (likely 60), that will have the fixes the Posteo article
   mentions:  we wrap Liferea to display "Liferea is going away,
   please migrate your feeds to Thunderbird"
2. In the following (N+1) release or N+2, we remove _Liferea_, drop it
   from the list of features, add feed reading to the list of
   Thunderbird features on doc/about/features, and close
   [[!tails_ticket 7626]].

# [[!tails_ticket 14581 desc="Install caff by default"]]

There seems to be a general agreement that it's nice to support the
use cases of developers concerned about the security of their OpenPGP
secret key material… and the today's power-users may be tomorrow's
contributors, so everyone felt like including `caff` was a good idea.
Still, [[!tails_ticket 14570]] will be fixed soon so there was some
hesitation floating around.

We decided to wait for [[!tails_ticket 14570]] to be fixed in
a release, then intrigeri will try this use case himself *without*
having _caff_ in the ISO, and if happy he'll ask infinity0 to try the
same. Then we'll see.
