[[!meta title="May 2018 online meeting"]]

[[!toc levels=2]]

# Meta

- Attendees: emmapeel, gaff, groente, nodens, sajolida, spriver, u.

- [[Logs|201807/logs.txt]]

# Volunteers to handle "Hole in the roof" tickets this month

- Gaff will look into [[!tails_ticket 8447 desc="#8447: Persistent data is not erased when persistence features are disabled"]].

# Volunteers to handle important tickets flagged for next release, but without assignee

None

# Availability and plans

- u: available for Tails during the next month, will attend DebConf,
so plenty of time for nerdy tasks.
- spriver: not thaaaat much Tails related work. Still trying to get
back into it, but let's see
- emmapeel:
  - Availability: this weekend i'll attend tdb.camp and then i will
  hang out for two weeks in amsterdam until i go to montenegro to
  meet with tactical tech people about journalists apps
  - Plans: I will be finishig the additional software docs and the
  other stuff on redmine while in amsterdam, then i will be doing
  helpdesk.
- nodens:
  - Availibility: very low until I arrive at debcamp on the 24th
  - Plans: I'll continue to handle emergencies / support tickets for
  OpenPGP Applet but nothing else I think
- sajolida:
  - Availability: "Full" except July 11-15
  - Plans: Finish VeraCrypt and Additional Software, continue the
  work with Simply Secure and planning the summit, move forward the
  personas, hopefully do some work on the donations.
- groente: will see emmapeel at tbd and will be busy with weblate and
daily sysadmin shifts in the next weeks, apart from that i'm pretty
full
