[[!meta title="March 2018 online meeting"]]

[[!toc levels=2]]

# Meta

- Attendees: anonym, intrigeri
- Semi-attending: emmapeel, sajolida, segfault, spriver

- [[Logs|201803/log.txt]]

# Volunteers to handle "Hole in the roof" tickets this month

* anonym: I'm already/still on [[!tails_ticket 5447]].
* intrigeri: I've closed [[!tails_ticket 8690]] today after failing to
  reproduce the problem => one less hole in the roof. :) I won't take
  any other this month.
* segfault: regarding hole in the roof, I have [[!tails_ticket 12146]]
  (which I don't expect to work on until we have a plan for
  [[!tails_ticket 15292]]) and won't take any other.

# Volunteers to handle important tickets flagged for next release, but without assignee

There was only [[!tails_ticket 15308]] which emmapeel will find an
assignee for.

# Availability and plans until the next meeting

* anonym:
  - Availability: 8-11 March: vacation, 12-15 March: Tor dev @ rome,
    then it is "office hours" for the rest of March.
  - Plans: attempt to get #15281 into shape for Tails 3.7 (which
    probably means shipping a 3.7~rc1), upstream our Thunderbird stuff
    finally #6156, test suite stuff, finish reviewing Tails Server
* emmapeel:
  - Availability: ?
  - Plans: this week, here in valencia, and when back home, look at
    the ASP docs with sajolida, and soon i am in shift again. also
    weblate
* intrigeri:
  - Availability: mostly unavailable until March 19, then back.
  - Plans: deal with my core work, avoid accumulating too much
    backlog, Tor meeting in Rome, and that's all.
* sajolida:
  - Availability: I'm here.
  - Plans: 3.6, apply to NLNet with our USB image project (and a bit
    more budget), close the Tails Verification saga, core work & OTF
    features, do interesting stuff with the rest of my technical
    writing budget for this quarter. Start to slowing organize the
    summit 2018.
* segfault:
  - Availability: I will be mostly available.
  - Plans: Fix the issues assigned to me for 3.6, work on
    [[!tails_ticket 14468]] subtasks, and Tails Server.
* spriver:
  - Availability is: nearly everyday given my current situation.
  - Plans: I started working on [[!tails_ticket 14567]] and currently
    one child.  also I'm planning to get some translation work done.

# Important missing bits in the next monthly report

The SponsorW bits are missing, which segfault will add within a day
from the meeting.

# Brainstorming: how Tor could support us more/better?

We brainstormed a list of suggestions/topics for intrigeri to bring to
Shari at the Tor meeting in Rome next week. The list contain some
semi-sensitive items, so we chose to not make it public (note: the URL
was shared on the channel).

# Strategic planning: is "Don't have to trust your hardware" an existing benefit of Tails ?

At the Tails Summit 2017 it was added to the "benefits" category; it
got one +1 dot and two -1 dots. Those of us attending the meeting
failed to see how Tails differs substantially from other OSes in this
respect, and suspect it was added in error, formulated the wrong way,
or put in the wrong category (perhaps it was intended as a goal?). We
decided to drop it (some might want to keep it as a goal, but we
almost had that discussion, and it seemed the way we were headed would
be to greatly have to reduce the scope of that promise).

(At best Tails raises the bar for Evil Maids so they are forced to
attack hardware/firmware since the Tails installation is portable and
thus can be carried with the user at all times, so kernel/initrd/OS
attacks can be protected against.)
