[07:04:43 PM] u: Volunteers to handle hole in the roof tickets? https://labs.riseup.net/code/versions/198
[07:04:43 PM] intrigeri: go go go!
[07:04:57 PM] u: i'm too busy atm to do more..
[07:04:58 PM] anonym: nope
[07:05:12 PM] segfault: same here
[07:05:15 PM] intrigeri: not me.
[07:05:42 PM] u: Volunteers to handle important tickets flagged for next release, but without assignee (let me search for the url)
[07:05:56 PM] pablonatalino has left (Disconnected: closed)
[07:06:33 PM] pablonatalino has joined the group chat
[07:07:02 PM] intrigeri: u: there's none.
[07:07:09 PM] u: yep
[07:07:18 PM] intrigeri: Redmine mafia strikes again! :)
[07:07:19 PM] u: so next: availability and plans until the next meeting
[07:07:23 PM] u: intrigeri: :)
[07:07:56 PM] anonym: office hours without any planned exceptions so far
[07:08:02 PM] u: i'm working on another project this month, but i'm also andling our donation campaign and i hope i'll be able to launch in the middle of october
[07:08:23 PM] u: i'm mostly available, except on weekends
[07:08:59 PM] segfault: i will continue working on the OTF/Veracrypt project, where I will hopefully finish the udisks part and start with the GNOME Disks part
[07:09:10 PM] u: :)
[07:09:31 PM] segfault: and i'm also mostly available
[07:09:54 PM] pablonatalino has left (Disconnected: closed)
[07:10:09 PM] intrigeri: October will be primarily about Buster (it rhymes!) + helping with reprobuilds if/where needed + quite some accounting/management/organization stuff such as documenting the sponsorship process. Plus the usual daily core work stuff. I'll take week 43 (Oct 23-29) off and then Reproducible Builds World Summit (nothing less).
[07:10:52 PM] u: ok!
[07:10:53 PM] pablonatalino has joined the group chat
[07:10:57 PM] intrigeri: (speaking of which, I should send my detailed availability schedule to my team mates, not just tails@)
[07:11:14 PM] u: next topic: the monthly report https://tails.boum.org/blueprint/monthly_report/report_2017_09/
[07:11:21 PM] intrigeri: wait, anonym's plans?
[07:11:22 PM] u: our volunteer this month is emmapeel i think
[07:11:29 PM] anonym: oops, forgot
[07:11:30 PM] u: (19:07:56) anonym: office hours without any planned exceptions so far
[07:11:40 PM] intrigeri: u: that's availability, not plans.
[07:11:44 PM] u: right
[07:12:03 PM] u: btw, i also started to benchmark our mirrors
[07:12:04 PM] u: :)
[07:12:38 PM] anonym: plans: working on buster (incl. a sprint) and getting back (a bit) working on the automated test suite. And I'm RM:ing Tails 3.3, whose cycle just started
[07:12:42 PM] intrigeri: u: nice. last time I did that from lizard (USA, West coast) + spriver did the same from a server in Germany. was interesting. results are on the blueprint from our work last year.
[07:13:29 PM] intrigeri: u: I'm releasing my lock, please go ahead with next topic if you wish :)
[07:13:34 PM] u: intrigeri: ah good to know
[07:13:41 PM] u: next topic: the monthly report https://tails.boum.org/blueprint/monthly_report/report_2017_09/
[07:13:51 PM] intrigeri: u: https://tails.boum.org/blueprint/HTTP_mirror_pool/#speed
[07:13:59 PM] u: please add your interesting bits to it so that emmapeel can publish the report
[07:14:01 PM] u: thanks intrigeri!
[07:14:10 PM] intrigeri: done.
[07:14:16 PM] u: same for me
[07:14:24 PM] u: and i think sajolida also added bits
[07:14:33 PM] intrigeri: same for sajolida, so essentially we have all the content that we usually publish.
[07:14:39 PM] u: intrigeri: what about our new grant? i was not sure if it is public yet
[07:14:42 PM] intrigeri: (I'm exagerating *a bit*)
[07:14:51 PM] anonym: is there already something about the reproducibility progress?
[07:15:08 PM] u: anonym: i only added a link about the user documentation to verify reproducibility
[07:15:11 PM] intrigeri: u: it is, we've been talking about it in some previous reports, and nothing prevents us from talking about it if we want (at least I want :)
[07:15:25 PM] u: intrigeri: could you add a sentence then?
[07:15:29 PM] u: to the report?
[07:15:35 PM] intrigeri: done already, no?
[07:15:44 PM] pablonatalino has left (Disconnected: closed)
[07:15:46 PM] u: oh yes!!
[07:15:47 PM] u: good
[07:15:49 PM] u: &lt;3
[07:15:57 PM] intrigeri: "We signed a new contract with OTF […]"
[07:16:05 PM] u: anonym: i can add something about reproducibility progress
[07:16:18 PM] pablonatalino has joined the group chat
[07:16:29 PM] intrigeri: anonym: you could link to the blueprint about #12626 for example
[07:16:31 PM] Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Feature #12626: Report back to the reproducible builds community about how we did it https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/12626
[07:16:43 PM] intrigeri: (btw I should edit it now that we have non-reproducibility reports wrt. 3.2)
[07:16:58 PM] u: yes
[07:17:06 PM] u: and yes
[07:17:09 PM] u: ok
[07:17:28 PM] anonym: two of them..
[07:17:36 PM] u: what a pity.
[07:17:40 PM] anonym: in fact, 2/2
[07:17:56 PM] u: then let's now switch to our first topic?
[07:18:22 PM] u: anonym: so maybe we skip the reproducibility report on progress this month again until the issues are fixed?
[07:18:49 PM] intrigeri: no, just updated the RB report so my proposal still stands.
[07:18:53 PM] u: ok
[07:19:01 PM] intrigeri: we *have* made progress :)
[07:19:06 PM] u: yes! :)
[07:19:10 PM] u: let's go on now: A short one: the monthly report is looking for coordinators! <https://tails.boum.org/blueprint/monthly_report/> for the next few months: if you want to coordinate the creation process of a memorable piece of literature, pleace add your name to a specific month in the linked page (or if you want to build a team, gang together and add multiple names!)
[07:19:28 PM] u: i added my name already again
[07:19:44 PM] u: and i hope that some other people will add their names
[07:19:47 PM] intrigeri: looking at my schedule for early Nov but I'm pretty sure I can't
[07:19:48 PM] pablonatalino has left
[07:20:05 PM] intrigeri: hmmm, no way I handle that in Nov.
[07:20:32 PM] segfault: i know that i am bad at writing reports / it takes me a lot of effort, so I would prefer not to get involved with this
[07:21:03 PM] intrigeri: segfault: FYI it's about coordinating/editing, not writing.
[07:21:05 PM] u: it's just curating and ask people to add their bits and then send a merge request
[07:21:17 PM] segfault: intrigeri: yeah i know, but still..
[07:21:28 PM] intrigeri: (although the web site still does not reflect what was decided ages ago)
[07:21:32 PM] intrigeri: segfault: OK!
[07:22:07 PM] u: intrigeri: is there a ticket about it?
[07:22:15 PM] u: intrigeri: to update the blueprint
[07:22:48 PM] intrigeri: aah, I've fixed the *template* in 4bef95f4f9b14a48f73adf75579b854479193839 but I did not fix the parent blueprint.
[07:23:12 PM] intrigeri: I'll do it right away or after the meeting. no ticket needed.
[07:23:22 PM] u: ok thanks!
[07:23:49 PM] bertagaz has left
[07:23:51 PM] u: i'll send a mail to tails-project to ask people to add their names
[07:23:57 PM] u: next topic then
[07:24:28 PM] u: #12437 this is on our list, but i think we discussed it last month and segfault wanted to have a look
[07:24:28 PM] Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Feature #12437: Save coredumps to a sticky directory - Tails - RiseupLabs Code Repository https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/12437
[07:24:31 PM] u: so let's skip this.
[07:25:08 PM] segfault: oh yeah, I forgot about this
[07:25:19 PM] u: it's low priority
[07:25:25 PM] intrigeri: turned it into a research ticket, removing from agenda.
[07:25:25 PM] u: so don't worry about it too much.
[07:25:37 PM] segfault: ok
[07:25:55 PM] u: #7224 this is a very old ticket, i've added it because there was no conclusion. let me resume
[07:25:56 PM] Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Feature #7224: Link different design documentations from user documentation https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/7224
[07:26:36 PM] u: This was the initial proposal: "Some user documentations have basic explanations, while power users might  want more details. It would be great if the documentation pages had  links to the design documentation regarding those subjects, ideally using a specific CSS or icon. Maybe a "+"?"
[07:26:56 PM] intrigeri: I can describe how I understand the *problem* this is trying to solve if it helps.
[07:27:03 PM] u: i think this touches a little bit the personas (users vs power users on the website)
[07:27:05 PM] u: intrigeri: sure
[07:27:07 PM] u: please
[07:27:09 PM] intrigeri: ('cause the ticket mostly describes a solution)
[07:28:31 PM] intrigeri: It happens regularly, at least on the user support channels I follow, that people have questions or doubts about *how* we implemented what we promise. So we have to manually point them to the design doc. It's somewhat tiring. And chances are a few other people have the same questions/doubts but don't ask. I suspect we're losing potential new contributors there.
[07:28:36 PM] intrigeri: .
[07:28:48 PM] u: thanks!
[07:29:37 PM] u: so, I actually think that it's a good idea to add these links, while making it clear that it's for power users. But first step to solve this would be to make a list of design docs and a list of potential user support pages they match
[07:29:40 PM] anonym: and what are we discussing?
[07:29:44 PM] intrigeri: IMO the question is "do we care about these two problems?", and if yes it becomes a type of work = Website ticket, and anyone who volunteers (not necessarily today!) will have to design a suitable solution, taking into account styling etc. as sajolida raised it.
[07:29:53 PM] u: it might be a nice easy task for a new contributor
[07:30:33 PM] u: so i think it would be a good addition to our website
[07:30:46 PM] u: but i do not volunteer
[07:30:52 PM] intrigeri: (Meta: I'd love to see this leave "Discuss" status. It's been 3 years and this kind of processes haven't exactly participated in keeping BitingBird actively involved in the doc/website area.)
[07:31:07 PM] segfault: I understand the problem and I think it would be nice if this could be solved
[07:31:21 PM] segfault: but I also do not volunteer
[07:31:23 PM] intrigeri: I think it would be great to have, as a nice gateway between consumer^Wuser status and power-user / contributor.
[07:31:32 PM] anonym: +1
[07:31:35 PM] u: cool!
[07:31:45 PM] u: so conclusion: turn this into a confirmed ticket
[07:31:48 PM] intrigeri: But I worry about the added complexity for 99% of the readers, so I suspect it's a hard web design challenge.
[07:31:49 PM] u: and list next steps?
[07:32:19 PM] emmapeel has joined the group chat
[07:32:23 PM] u: i think this is related to the persona research, we should mark these tickets
[07:32:38 PM] intrigeri: Proposal: we acknowledge the problems (XXX: quote what I wrote above) this would solve, but worry about the added complexity for 99% of the readers. Hopefully a good web designer will find a good solution.
[07:32:42 PM] u: hi emmapeel, the meeting started at 19h actually, there was a mistake in the email :(
[07:32:46 PM] anonym: u: how is it related?
[07:32:48 PM] emmapeel: oh damn
[07:32:54 PM] segfault: emmapeel: hi!
[07:32:57 PM] emmapeel: hello!
[07:33:07 PM] emmapeel: please keep going, will try to get some backlog
[07:33:35 PM] u: ack intrigeri
[07:33:35 PM] anonym: (I get that some specific personas might like to have this, but then everything we ever will want to do is related, basically)
[07:33:56 PM] u: anonym: there was an idea at some point to restructure the website according to personas
[07:34:10 PM] u: anonym: and to propose more detailed information to power users
[07:34:24 PM] u: no idea how exactly this will look like, but that's the thing which is related :)
[07:34:31 PM] anonym: u: thanks! now it is clear for me
[07:34:33 PM] intrigeri: also, *once* the web design problem is solved, someone will have to actually add these links. I think people like segfault, u, anonym and I would be ideally suited. Probably some other people could do it too. It can take a while.
[07:34:50 PM] u: sure, the implementation can become another ticket
[07:35:10 PM] segfault: ok
[07:35:12 PM] intrigeri: It would be a shame if we had a new contributor spend hours on the 1st blocker (web design), only to see noone actually use it to add these links.
[07:35:27 PM] u: but at first i think we need: 
1. ux research/web design
2. list of pages of documentation & list of design docs to link
3. implementation
[07:35:42 PM] intrigeri: so perhaps, to be more welcoming to that web designer, we could *first* propose a few (say, 5-10) such links.
[07:35:57 PM] intrigeri: as examples / test cases.
[07:36:00 PM] u: ack
[07:36:13 PM] segfault: ack
[07:36:22 PM] anonym: very good idea!
[07:36:36 PM] intrigeri: I could do that, low priority on my plate though. (and I worry that I'll be "OMG our design doc is shitty" and will improve it along the way, which is somewhat scary)
[07:36:58 PM] intrigeri: (see contribute/build for a recent example..)
[07:37:07 PM] u: bikeshedding?
[07:37:11 PM] intrigeri: red!
[07:37:41 PM] emmapeel: ok, then... yeah i think they should be 15 links
[07:37:58 PM] emmapeel: sorry joke
[07:38:17 PM] u: ok, let's add all this info to the ticket
[07:38:21 PM] intrigeri: emmapeel: 12, deal?
[07:38:28 PM] u: also that segault anonym or me could actually implement it in the end
[07:38:34 PM] segfault: ok
[07:38:43 PM] anonym: emmapeel: perhaps you have ideas for good candidates, given what's asked to frontdesk?
[07:38:49 PM] u: and turn this into a confirmed "website" ticket
[07:38:50 PM] intrigeri: segfault: is the decision sufficiently clear for your note-taking (+ updating Redmine later)?
[07:39:15 PM] intrigeri: … assigned to me otherwise I won't know I have something to do.
[07:39:17 PM] emmapeel: i am afrid i still havent reached the meeting notes, so i dont know what ticket you are speaking about
[07:39:29 PM] intrigeri: #7224
[07:39:31 PM] segfault: yeah I think it is clear
[07:39:51 PM] u: cool! then we're done..
[07:39:52 PM] intrigeri: :)
[07:39:54 PM] emmapeel: cheers intrigeri
[07:40:11 PM] u: just one last note: emmapeel you're the monthly report coordinator this month, did you know?
[07:40:14 PM] intrigeri: u: so I can go cook now? :)
[07:40:15 PM] anonym: emmapeel: basically, which Tails features are most often asked to frontdesk about how they are implemented?
[07:40:25 PM] u: emmapeel: do you want to tell us anything about your availability this month?
[07:40:32 PM] u: intrigeri: i think so! :))))
[07:40:37 PM] anonym: emmapeel: so we can link to the design doc from the user doc
[07:40:40 PM] emmapeel: yes, i know i am the coordinator thanks for reminding anyway.. :D
[07:40:49 PM] u: emmapeel: ok :)
[07:41:15 PM] emmapeel: i am in a bit of a hectic moment, dont count much on me first 2 weeks, then i will be more present and on shift for the second hald of october
[07:41:30 PM] u: ack!
[07:41:32 PM] u: thanks :)
[07:41:44 PM] u: that was a quick meeting :)
[07:41:51 PM] anonym: well
[07:42:00 PM] anonym: we have time for another short Discuss ticket
[07:42:07 PM] anonym: https://labs.riseup.net/code/projects/tails/issues?query_id=114
[07:42:18 PM] anonym: there's more than what is listed on the monthly report blueprint, sadly :9
[07:42:20 PM] anonym: :)
[07:42:46 PM] anonym: so let's try to find candidates?
[07:42:53 PM] emmapeel: users want to know about how the firewall is set up sometimes
[07:43:03 PM] emmapeel: sorry the tpic is closed
[07:43:34 PM] emmapeel: (re  #7224)
[07:43:45 PM] anonym: emmapeel: it would be great if you wrote a few of these in a comment on the ticket
[07:43:50 PM] emmapeel: ok
[07:44:20 PM] u: anonym: if you want to add more tickets to discuss let's check if everybody is still up for more?
[07:44:30 PM] u: next time we should do that before the meeting
[07:44:33 PM] segfault: i would be up for more
[07:44:51 PM] intrigeri: anonym: generally, trying to find a suitable Discuss ticket 15 mins before the end of this meeting fails. But if you find one, add it and we'll have one for next month :)
[07:45:11 PM] u: i'm not really up for more
[07:45:17 PM] intrigeri: I could do one more but I bet it'll take 5+ minutes to find one and it might not fit in 10 minutes.
[07:45:26 PM] anonym: I'm not parricularly interested, I just thought it'd be good for the purpose of reducing the Discuss mountain
[07:45:30 PM] emmapeel: i am just getting started, i want more! is like a meeting interruptus
[07:45:36 PM] intrigeri: (our previous topic took 15 minutes for example)
[07:46:08 PM] anonym: hmm, #12238 :P
[07:46:12 PM] Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Feature #12238: Ship full APT lists in the live file system https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/12238
[07:46:27 PM] u: i will take care of resuming what we discussed about memory hole
[07:46:31 PM] u: on the ticket
[07:47:09 PM] u: anonym: i let you take over explaining what this ticket is about then?
[07:47:29 PM] intrigeri: anonym: I suggest you sum up the remaining items to be discussed on that ticket (perhaps for next meeting?)
[07:47:49 PM] anonym: yup. I mostly wanted to entice segfault... :)
[07:48:18 PM] segfault: anonym: and you did. I didn't see this in the discuss tickets
[07:48:22 PM] intrigeri:  think it'll take me 10 minutes just to put the problem space back into my head.
[07:48:29 PM] sajolida has left (Disconnected: closed)
[07:48:37 PM] anonym: segfault: yeah, the link I gave was only unassigned ones
[07:49:02 PM] sajolida has joined the group chat
[07:49:06 PM] segfault: and I forgot that this was still open. I would really like to have this done before 3.4
[07:49:28 PM] intrigeri: 3.4 is a bugfix release.
[07:49:36 PM] segfault: ?
[07:49:43 PM] intrigeri: https://tails.boum.org/contribute/calendar/
[07:50:08 PM] emmapeel: it is not a major release, so big stuff should not happen for 3.4
[07:50:16 PM] segfault: but since when
[07:50:34 PM] segfault: we planned to release Tails Server in 3.4
[07:50:47 PM] anonym: segfault: which I forgot..
[07:50:52 PM] intrigeri: segfault: "[Tails-dev] Release schedule for 2018"
[07:51:17 PM] anonym: crap
[07:51:27 PM] segfault: mmh ok. so it will be 3.5 then
[07:51:41 PM] anonym: we can think about this later
[07:51:46 PM] segfault: ok
[07:51:48 PM] intrigeri: wow, two different people today who realize now that the new release schedule does not really work for their plan. I really messed up something.
[07:51:59 PM] intrigeri: :/
[07:52:14 PM] intrigeri: I clearly assumed too much.
[07:52:15 PM] anonym: intrigeri: no, I messed up my part. I rushed my answer
[07:52:50 PM] segfault: it's ok. we already waited over a year for the next-gen onion services, I think we can wait two more months
[07:52:52 PM] intrigeri: anonym: possibly, but I was (over-)assuming that both sajolida & segfault would notice that this schedule impacted their plans. I was wrong. Will try to do better next year.
[07:52:53 PM] anonym: ah, and apparently the idea of releasing Tails Server is not in my personal agenda
[07:52:59 PM] intrigeri: segfault: wise words :)
[07:53:00 PM] u: I'd need the donation banner to appear in 3.4 but i suppose this fits the "small fixes"?
[07:53:28 PM] intrigeri: u: website is not subject to bugfix vs. major in practice.
[07:53:40 PM] u: ok
[07:53:52 PM] intrigeri: u: when you say "in 3.4", what do you mean exactly? in the bundled website one sees when they click "Tails documentation"?
[07:54:08 PM] intrigeri: we simply merge current master when we prepare the release, so whatever is live on the website goes in.
[07:54:46 PM] intrigeri: u: the browser homepage is loaded from our live website, so perhaps what's in the ISO itself does not matter that much.
[07:54:49 PM] sajolida has left
[07:54:53 PM] u: yes intrigeri
[07:54:59 PM] u: ok
[07:55:02 PM] u: cool!
[07:55:05 PM] u: just wanted to be sure :)
[07:55:06 PM] intrigeri: :)
[07:55:21 PM] intrigeri: wise too. everyone is getting wise today :)
[07:55:54 PM] segfault: anonym: that could be a problem. can you check whether you can fit this in?
[07:56:02 PM] u: lol
[07:56:26 PM] intrigeri: would be fancy if the May release was based on Buster *and* had Tails Server.
[07:56:26 PM] u: uh, my lol was about getting wise
[07:56:41 PM] intrigeri: s/May/March/
[07:56:42 PM] u: wow, i can hear geese flying to warmer regions of earth outside.
[07:57:06 PM] segfault: intrigeri: is Buster planned for the March release?
[07:57:12 PM] emmapeel: dont worry u, soon geese are going to stay all winter at your place :)
[07:57:19 PM] jvoisin has joined the group chat
[07:57:22 PM] anonym: segfault: it fits. :) my above statement explains why I didn't realize the Tails Server in 3.4 vs Release schedule for 2018 problem. :)
[07:57:44 PM] segfault: ok
[07:58:07 PM] intrigeri: segfault: https://tails.boum.org/blueprint/Debian_testing/#index3h1 we'll decide in December.
[07:58:12 PM] anonym: segfault: Tails might be based on buster in a week, it depends on how well the sprint goes </joke> :)
[07:58:28 PM] intrigeri: segfault: you might want to watch #14578 and its parent ticket.
[07:58:29 PM] segfault: anonym: :))
[07:58:29 PM] Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Feature #14578: Decide when we want to release Tails based on Debian Buster https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/14578
[07:58:50 PM] segfault: intrigeri: ok
[07:59:19 PM] intrigeri: anonym: I think we should give doc writers a couple days to update it, so Oct 15 would be better IMO.
[07:59:23 PM] intrigeri: (</joke>)
[07:59:47 PM] anonym: intrigeri: true!
[08:00:02 PM] anonym: ok. meeting over!
[08:00:06 PM] u: emmapeel: hihi
――――――――――――――――――――
[08:00:14 PM] intrigeri: yep. bye. good evening/day/whatever.
[08:00:19 PM] emmapeel: night!
[08:00:29 PM] anonym: good night!
[08:00:32 PM] u: see you!
[08:00:38 PM] segfault: bye!
