(07:00:36 PM) intrigeri: meeting time!
(07:00:39 PM) intrigeri: who's here?
(07:00:53 PM) intrigeri: agenda: https://tails.boum.org/blueprint/monthly_meeting/
(07:00:57 PM) sajolida entered the room.
(07:01:05 PM) intrigeri: we have a facilitator (myself) but we need a notetaker
(07:01:20 PM) emmapeel: hello!
(07:01:22 PM) sajolida: hi!
(07:01:25 PM) intrigeri: https://tails.boum.org/contribute/meetings/#index2h1 tells how to take notes.
(07:01:42 PM) sajolida: i'm probably not going to be here the whole time, i'm in a park right now and have a UX meetup at 19:30
(07:03:02 PM) anonym: here for the meeting now!
(07:03:35 PM) anonym: worst case I take notes again
(07:04:11 PM) kibi left the room (Machine going to sleep).
(07:04:23 PM) intrigeri: anonym: there you go then
(07:04:26 PM) intrigeri: let's start.
(07:04:34 PM) intrigeri: agenda is at https://tails.boum.org/blueprint/monthly_meeting/
(07:04:40 PM) intrigeri: first topic: Volunteers to handle "Hole in the roof (https://labs.riseup.net/code/versions/198)" tickets this month
(07:05:16 PM) intrigeri: I've closed #8690 today after failing to reproduce the problem => one less hole in the roof :)
(07:05:17 PM) Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Bug #8690: tails-install-iuk's output is not forwarded to the Upgrader error reporting https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/8690
(07:05:33 PM) intrigeri: I won't take any other this month.
(07:05:38 PM) anonym: I'm already/still on #5447
(07:05:38 PM) Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Bug #5447: Fix DVD eject at shutdown (on some computers) https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/5447
(07:06:44 PM) intrigeri: If you already know you won't take a hole in the roof, please say so to avoid meeting deadlock :)
(07:06:45 PM) anonym: who's here for the meeting?
(07:07:01 PM) sajolida: i won't
(07:07:09 PM) anonym: drwhax, emmapeel, gagz, groente, hybridwipe, kwadronaut, muri, nodens, segfault, spriver: ?
(07:07:21 PM) spriver: I am (expect 75% felt brain capacity)
(07:07:33 PM) segfault: I will try to participate
(07:07:40 PM) emmapeel: i am but also with some contributors here... not here
(07:07:46 PM) emmapeel: not so much here i mean
(07:08:17 PM) segfault: regarding hole in the roof, I have #12146 (which I don't expect to work on until we have a plan for #15292) and won't take any other
(07:08:17 PM) Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Bug #12146: Tails installed using dd is not seen as a bootable device on MacBook Pro - Tails - RiseupLabs Code Repository https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/12146
(07:08:18 PM) Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Feature #15292: Distribute a USB image https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/15292
(07:09:12 PM) anonym: so only me and intrigeri are here 100%? I suspect this meeting will be frustrating, we'll see..
(07:09:31 PM) intrigeri: OK, let's assume this specific set of attendees knows the list of holes in the roof already and let's not wait more than 5 min.
(07:09:39 PM) spriver: ack
(07:09:40 PM) intrigeri: next topic: Volunteers to handle important tickets flagged for next release, but without assignee
(07:09:43 PM) intrigeri: let me cook a url.
(07:10:28 PM) intrigeri: only https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/15308 on that list
(07:10:29 PM) Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Feature #15308: Cannot update database schemes in translate.lizard https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/15308
(07:10:58 PM) intrigeri: emmapeel: I suspect that won't be done in time for 3.6 without an assignee => could you please do something with the metadata of this ticket?
(07:11:03 PM) intrigeri: next topic then!
(07:11:09 PM) emmapeel: sure intrigeri
(07:11:17 PM) intrigeri: next topic: "Availability and plans until the next meeting"
(07:11:19 PM) intrigeri: emmapeel: :)))
(07:12:14 PM) spriver: I started working on  #14567 (https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/14567) and currently one child
(07:12:14 PM) Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Feature #14567: Investigate mobile messaging applications - Tails - RiseupLabs Code Repository https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/14567
(07:12:39 PM) intrigeri: availability: mostly unavailable until March 19, then back. plans: deal with my core work, avoid accumulating too much backlog, and that's all.
(07:12:45 PM) spriver: also I'm planning to get some translation work done
(07:12:57 PM) segfault: I plan to fix the issues assigned to me for 3.6, work on #14468 subtasks, and Tails Server. I will be mostly available.
(07:12:58 PM) Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Feature #14468: Add VeraCrypt support to Tails https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/14468
(07:13:14 PM) spriver: availability is: nearly everyday given my current situation
(07:13:43 PM) sajolida: Availability: I'm here. Plans: 3.6, apply to NLNet with our USB image project (and a bit more budget), close the Tails Verification saga, core work & OTF features, do interesting stuff with the rest of my technical writing budget for this quarter.
(07:14:48 PM) intrigeri: plans++: Tor meeting in Rome.
(07:15:02 PM) anonym: availability: 8-11 March: vacation, 12-15 March: Tor dev @ rome, then it is "office hours" for the rest of March
plans: attempt to get #15281 into shape for Tails 3.7 (which probably means shipping a 3.7~rc1), upstream our Thunderbird stuff finally #6156, test suite stuff, finish reviewing Tails Server
(07:15:03 PM) Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Feature #15281: Stack one single SquashFS diff when upgrading https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/15281
(07:15:05 PM) Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Feature #6156: Upstream secure Icedove autoconfig wizard https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/6156
(07:16:13 PM) sajolida: spriver: so cool that you are working on #14567!
(07:16:38 PM) spriver: sajolida: thanks!
(07:17:00 PM) sajolida: Plans++: start to slowing organize the summit 2018
(07:17:14 PM) emmapeel: plans: this week, here in valencia, and when back home, look at the ASP docs with sajolida, and soon i am in shift again. also weblate
(07:19:49 PM) intrigeri: OK, next topic then
(07:20:01 PM) intrigeri: Important missing bits in the next monthly report (https://tails.boum.org/blueprint/monthly_report/).
(07:20:19 PM) intrigeri: well, we got pinged over email a couple times already, but still that's a possibly useful reminder
(07:20:38 PM) intrigeri: if there's something you really want to see in that report and it's not there: now is a good time to notice :)
(07:20:57 PM) sajolida: off-topic: I'm more worried about the report for SponsorW which is still empty → https://tails.boum.org/blueprint/SponsorW/2018_02/
(07:20:57 PM) intrigeri: here it is: https://tails.boum.org/blueprint/monthly_report/report_2018_02/
(07:21:21 PM) intrigeri: sajolida: right. let me chat about this with segfault later.
(07:21:22 PM) segfault: sajolida: I will add my bits until tomorrow afternoon
(07:21:29 PM) intrigeri: perfect!
(07:21:35 PM) anonym: I've been postponing writing something for #15281
(07:21:36 PM) Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Feature #15281: Stack one single SquashFS diff when upgrading https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/15281
(07:21:45 PM) intrigeri: anonym: I've added something about it.
(07:21:47 PM) sajolida: segfault: cooool!
(07:21:58 PM) intrigeri: anonym: "We made plans to improve the upgrade user experience:"
(07:23:07 PM) anonym: intrigeri: great! unfortunate that I couldn't manage to do something for the report for once :/
(07:24:09 PM) intrigeri: anyone needs more time to look at the report?
(07:24:22 PM) segfault: no
(07:26:04 PM) intrigeri: OK, next topic
(07:26:33 PM) intrigeri: tell me if I'm rushing things too much — with so many people who said they are not 100% here I won't wait for everyone to notice something is being asked.
(07:26:54 PM) sajolida: go go go!
(07:26:58 PM) spriver: go
(07:27:00 PM) intrigeri: We have 2 discussions on the agenda: one brainstorming and one topic from strategic planning.
(07:27:53 PM) anonym: the brainstorming sounds more open-ended, so strategic planning first?
(07:28:15 PM) intrigeri: I say let's take 10 minutes (+5 optionnal minutes if we feel they will help us) to brainstorm. then strategic planning. and if we have time we can come back to the brainstorming output and triage/prioritize.
(07:28:36 PM) intrigeri: anonym: naah, I don't want a brainstorming without any kind of time limit. the output is open-ended, not the format :)
(07:28:52 PM) intrigeri: So, Brainstorming: how Tor could support us more/better?  
(07:28:56 PM) intrigeri: Context: intrigeri will discuss this topic with the Tor leadership at the Tor meeting in March
(07:29:04 PM) intrigeri: Expected output: a raw, unfiltered, non-prioritized list of ideas.
(07:29:17 PM) intrigeri: I'll create a pad otherwise our dear notetaker will suffer.
(07:29:28 PM) intrigeri: https://pad.riseup.net/p/MLkltlwFwdzH
(07:29:34 PM) anonym: intrigeri: ❤
(07:29:53 PM) intrigeri: anonym: your job will be to copy-paste whatever is in there into the minutes (unless we manage to do something better about it)
(07:30:05 PM) anonym: intrigeri: ack!
(07:31:14 PM) intrigeri: add your stuff there. we have until 19:40 Berlin time.
(07:31:27 PM) intrigeri: if the question is unclear, ask me
(07:36:04 PM) nodens left the room (Disconnected: closed).
(07:36:07 PM) nodens entered the room.
(07:40:34 PM) intrigeri: time's up!
(07:40:52 PM) intrigeri: does anyone feel they would add useful stuff given 5 more minutes?
(07:41:36 PM) intrigeri: not me. I won't add much more.
(07:41:49 PM) intrigeri: anonym, emmapeel, sajolida, segfault: ^
(07:42:05 PM) segfault: no
(07:42:13 PM) sajolida: nah... i'm not very inspired, I'm sorry :)
(07:42:59 PM) intrigeri: OK, thanks! that will be useful.
(07:43:42 PM) intrigeri: anonym: I'm not sure how this should be captured in the notes, not 100% sure we should dump all that on our website.
(07:44:02 PM) intrigeri: anonym: but please at least send me a dump of the pad after the meeting. looks like people are still editing it..
(07:44:02 PM) anonym: intrigeri: ack, so perhaps you just take it yourself now?
(07:44:12 PM) anonym: intrigeri: ok, will do that!
(07:44:14 PM) intrigeri: well, if it was frozen, yes, but apparently it's not.
(07:44:15 PM) intrigeri: thanks
(07:44:21 PM) intrigeri: we have 15 min left
(07:44:32 PM) intrigeri: I think it might be enough for the strategic planning thing
(07:44:37 PM) anonym: yup
(07:44:45 PM) intrigeri: Strategic planning (https://tails.boum.org/blueprint/strategic_planning/): is "Don't have to trust your hardware" a goal? Someone proposed it as a goal at the Tails Summit 2017, in the benefits category; it got one +1 dot and two -1 dots.
(07:44:47 PM) sajolida: I'm going to go to my UX meetup... See you!
(07:45:27 PM) segfault: I think it is a desirable goal, but not a realistic one
(07:45:47 PM) spriver: woah the bar is high for this one
(07:45:53 PM) anonym: agreed.
(07:45:55 PM) spriver: if even possible
(07:45:56 PM) intrigeri: meta: I picked one that likely will be easy to give #14502 a try. I think it was probably poorly phrased and the person who wrote it down may have meant something else than what I understand. but whatever, let's discuss it as we understand it.
(07:45:56 PM) Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Feature #14502: Ensure the output of the Strategic Planning session (Tails Summit 2017) is discussed - Tails - RiseupLabs Code Repository https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/14502
(07:46:14 PM) segfault: "Reduce trust into your hardware" would be a bit more realistic
(07:46:19 PM) spriver: ack
(07:46:34 PM) intrigeri: FTR "benefits" == why should users care: for example, answers to "why should I put that much effort into getting started with Tails?" such as "it feels good to use a computer that behaves the way I legitimately expect"
(07:47:00 PM) intrigeri: sorry, it was not proposed as a goal but as a already existing benefit.
(07:47:25 PM) segfault: what
(07:47:28 PM) segfault: ok
(07:47:34 PM) intrigeri: so the question is: is "Don't have to trust your hardware" a benefit Tails already provides, that makes it worth it to users to bother using Tails.
(07:48:05 PM) spriver: hm okay
(07:48:05 PM) intrigeri: to me, it's quite obviously *not* something we provide at the moment, understood with a strict definition of "hardware".
(07:48:15 PM) segfault: agreed
(07:48:56 PM) intrigeri: (I suspect the person who wrote it meant "don't have to trust the OS that's on your hard disk" but whatever, let's stick to what is written)
(07:49:10 PM) intrigeri: anyone wants to argue in favour of this being a benefit of Tails?
(07:49:54 PM) anonym: *sound of crickets*
(07:50:31 PM) intrigeri: my argument for saying "it's not" is the following: we do basically nothing more (if anything at all) than other OS'es to protect against hardware that's controled by an adversary. so it cannot possibly be a good reason to start using Tails.
(07:50:35 PM) emmapeel: well, yes
(07:50:59 PM) emmapeel: it would be great.. but is that possible? or maybe a lot of work?
(07:51:16 PM) intrigeri: emmapeel: the question is: is "Don't have to trust your hardware" a benefit Tails already provides, that makes it worth it to users to bother using Tails.
(07:51:32 PM) intrigeri: emmapeel: sorry I got it wrong initially + on the agenda :/
(07:51:37 PM) intrigeri: emmapeel: my bad!
(07:52:25 PM) emmapeel: ok
(07:53:18 PM) anonym: let's proceed as if everyone agrees
(07:53:25 PM) spriver: oui
(07:53:36 PM) anonym: the delays make the real discussion we want to have impossible
(07:53:37 PM) intrigeri: a counter-argument would be: compared to an OS on disk, if I keep my Tails USB stick in a safe place, the attacker must attack my laptop's firmware 
(07:53:59 PM) intrigeri: which is harder / more expensive than hacking my initrd.
(07:54:13 PM) spriver: ack
(07:54:46 PM) intrigeri: anyway, doesn't make me change my mind wrt. the actual phrasing.
(07:55:13 PM) intrigeri: anonym: please capture the argument(s?) we have for removing it so you can justify your commit when you drop that line from the strategic planning blueprint.
(07:55:23 PM) intrigeri: OK, we have 4 min left
(07:55:46 PM) anonym: intrigeri: ack!
(07:55:59 PM) spriver: <commercial time>
(07:56:02 PM) nodens left the room (Disconnected: No route to host).
(07:56:05 PM) spriver: </joke>
(07:56:11 PM) anonym: spriver: :)
(07:56:20 PM) intrigeri: I suggest we take time to read the brainstorming pad and if anything feels wrong, let me know before the end of the week so I refrain from using it when I meet with Shari.
(07:57:03 PM) anonym: ... which I guess concludes this meeting?
(07:57:16 PM) kibi entered the room.
(07:57:31 PM) intrigeri: And wrt. the AffectsTails keyword that "we are not using": I dunno who "we" is but I'm adding it quite consistently to every Trac ticket we're tracking on our side / that I feel worth it to suggest Tor folks to prioritize.
(07:57:51 PM) intrigeri: anonym: I meant "please read the pad now until the end of the meeting"
(07:58:05 PM) anonym: intrigeri: I was talking about the TailsNeeds keyword
(07:58:09 PM) intrigeri: because I doubt $we'll do it later. but whatever :)
(07:58:46 PM) intrigeri: anonym: TailsNeeds? what's that? I don't remember hearing about it. Where is it documented?
(07:58:54 PM) emmapeel left the room (Stream reset by peer).
(07:59:25 PM) anonym: intrigeri: nickm told us about it, and I have a vague memory of you saying that we should document it :P
(07:59:40 PM) anonym: (at Tor dev in Amsterdam)
(07:59:47 PM) emmapeel entered the room.
(07:59:53 PM) anonym: TBH, I just remembered it out of nowhere :)
(08:00:10 PM) intrigeri: anonym: OK, so it was an idea for something that does not exist. got it.
(08:01:17 PM) anonym: intrigeri: sort of. I think he meant that at least he will take it seriously. so I guess it currently mostly is about little-t tor
(08:01:47 PM) anonym: IIRC they do things like TorBrowserNeeds internally
(08:01:49 PM) sajolida left the room (Disconnected: closed).
(08:02:24 PM) anonym: according to the clock, the meeting is over
(08:02:39 PM) intrigeri: I'm unconvinced we need a technical solution to what looks like a social/communication problem, but whatever. Thanks for reminding me of that discussion you were having with nickm and that IIRC I briefly joined!
(08:02:43 PM) intrigeri: yes, meeting over!
