(07:00:03 PM) intrigeri: meeting tiiiime!
(07:00:09 PM) sajolida: meeting tiiime!
(07:00:20 PM) sajolida: ok, so i'm the facilitator tonight (thanks!)
(07:00:24 PM) anonym: hi!
(07:00:27 PM) anonym: I take notes!
(07:00:28 PM) anonym: go!
(07:00:29 PM) segfault: hi
(07:00:30 PM) sajolida: first topic is....
(07:00:34 PM) sajolida: Volunteers to handle "Hole in the roof (https://labs.riseup.net/code/versions/198)" tickets this month
(07:00:39 PM) sajolida: yeah! my favorite one
(07:00:49 PM) sajolida: everybody please have a look at the list of tickets
(07:00:59 PM) sajolida: and tell us if you think you can help move some of these forward
(07:01:22 PM) intrigeri: I did enough Hole in the Roof recently and I'm too busy this month to commit to a new one.
(07:01:34 PM) emmapeel: i have been working on #10022
(07:01:35 PM) Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Feature #10022: Have experts review our revocation mechanism of Tails signing key https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/10022
(07:01:38 PM) segfault: i'm very busy with other projects, so no hole in the roof tickets for me
(07:02:03 PM) sajolida: we now have a plan for #12146 with https://tails.boum.org/blueprint/usb_install_and_upgrade/usb_bootable_disk_image/
(07:02:04 PM) Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Bug #12146: Tails installed using dd is not seen as a bootable device on MacBook Pro https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/12146
(07:02:11 PM) spriver:  I was reading the paper from #5340 a bit again lately. but no warranty to be finished in the near future
(07:02:11 PM) Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Feature #5340: Analyze Jake FOCI12 paper - Tails - RiseupLabs Code Repository https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/5340
(07:02:17 PM) emmapeel: some reviews reached tails@ and i was waiting for some answers to wrap #10022 up
(07:02:18 PM) Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Feature #10022: Have experts review our revocation mechanism of Tails signing key https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/10022
(07:02:32 PM) sajolida: emmapeel: i know! i want to have a look!
(07:02:52 PM) anonym: I'll look at #5447 if frontdesk can tell me if it is an issue still
(07:02:53 PM) Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Bug #5447: Fix DVD eject at shutdown https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/5447
(07:03:16 PM) emmapeel: DVD? what is a DVD? 
(07:03:25 PM) anonym: yeah...
(07:03:34 PM) emmapeel: i never saw this ticket
(07:03:35 PM) sajolida: ancien stuff people put in their gardens to keep birds away...
(07:03:44 PM) intrigeri: emmapeel: it's a thing that about 10% of bug reporters use to start Tails :)
(07:03:46 PM) emmapeel: users of DVD tend to be really paranoid and like the emergency shutdown
(07:04:13 PM) emmapeel: there are some DVD users, i was joking. but i never heard of the eject button not working
(07:04:33 PM) anonym: emmapeel: ok. I feel like we should reject it right now then
(07:04:41 PM) emmapeel: ok i see that maybe *nce* i did saw a user
(07:04:47 PM) segfault: ok, so I do take a hole in the roof ticket - #12146 (thanks intrigeri :)
(07:04:48 PM) Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Bug #12146: Tails installed using dd is not seen as a bootable device on MacBook Pro https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/12146
(07:04:50 PM) emmapeel: (bottom of the ticket)
(07:04:57 PM) intrigeri: segfault: my pleasure :P
(07:05:30 PM) intrigeri: ack rejecting
(07:05:57 PM) sajolida: this seems to happen only on *some* computers, so actually, input from help desk would be helpful... because the issue might as well have disappeared
(07:06:18 PM) sajolida: anything more on Hole in the Roof? anybody needs more time?
(07:06:21 PM) emmapeel: yeahi have not seen this.. i didnt even remembered i saw it back then when i wrote the comment
(07:06:57 PM) anonym: I deal with it
(07:07:00 PM) emmapeel: but lately i am quite sure nobody complained about #5447
(07:07:01 PM) Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Bug #5447: Fix DVD eject at shutdown (on some computers) https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/5447
(07:07:09 PM) anonym: let's leave #5447 now!
(07:07:47 PM) sajolida: ok, let's move on then!
(07:07:56 PM) sajolida: next topic is.... "Volunteers to handle important tickets flagged for next release, but without assignee"
(07:08:37 PM) sajolida: i see no relevant ticket in https://labs.riseup.net/code/projects/tails/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&set_filter=1&f%5B%5D=cf_15&op%5Bcf_15%5D=%3D&v%5Bcf_15%5D%5B%5D=Discuss&f%5B%5D=status_id&op%5Bstatus_id%5D=o&f%5B%5D=cf_9&op%5Bcf_9%5D=%21&v%5Bcf_9%5D%5B%5D=Pass&f%5B%5D=assigned_to_id&op%5Bassigned_to_id%5D=%21*&f%5B%5D=&c%5B%5D=status&c%5B%5D=priority&c%5B%5D=fixed_version&c%5B%5D=subject&c%5B%5D=category&c%5B%5D=cf_15&c%5B%5D=assigned_to&c%5B%5D=cf_9&group_by=&t%5B%5D=
(07:09:01 PM) sajolida: shit, buggy query!
(07:09:05 PM) sajolida: wait...
(07:09:26 PM) sajolida: https://labs.riseup.net/code/projects/tails/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&set_filter=1&f%5B%5D=fixed_version_id&op%5Bfixed_version_id%5D=%3D&v%5Bfixed_version_id%5D%5B%5D=307&f%5B%5D=status_id&op%5Bstatus_id%5D=o&f%5B%5D=assigned_to_id&op%5Bassigned_to_id%5D=%21*&f%5B%5D=cf_9&op%5Bcf_9%5D=%21&v%5Bcf_9%5D%5B%5D=Pass&f%5B%5D=&c%5B%5D=priority&c%5B%5D=subject&c%5B%5D=category&c%5B%5D=cf_15&c%5B%5D=assigned_to&c%5B%5D=cf_9&group_by=status&t%5B%5D=
(07:09:27 PM) sajolida: ah!
(07:09:31 PM) sajolida: No data to display
(07:09:54 PM) sajolida: if someone confirms this, then we can move on to the next topic...
(07:10:06 PM) sajolida: which is... "Availability and plans until the next meeting"
(07:10:07 PM) emmapeel: hmm i see three tickets
(07:10:16 PM) sajolida: emmapeel: the second query :)
(07:10:33 PM) sajolida: please everybody tell us about your plans and availability in February
(07:10:35 PM) intrigeri: sajolida: confirmed.
(07:11:23 PM) spriver: (maybe) a bit of doc/translation stuff, but I'm starting slowly now and let's see how it'll go. I'll be online most of the days
(07:11:48 PM) emmapeel: i am on frontdesk shift and i also plan to work on the translation platform with drebs and next month also with groente and u
(07:11:54 PM) anonym: availability: I'm dedicated to the sprint and recovering from it for the next week, after that I'm available "office hours" (CET)
plans: I am deliberately chilling with my plans, but I intend to kill my current Redmine plate
(07:12:03 PM) intrigeri: plans: accounting sprint, budget forecasting, grant writing, negotiate new milestones arrangement with a sponsor (VeraCrypt), trying to do the other parts of my core work. and on top of that, try to enable Spanish on our website if time allows.
(07:12:30 PM) emmapeel: yay!!!
(07:12:36 PM) ***emmapeel does a happy dance
(07:12:36 PM) sajolida: checking https://labs.riseup.net/code/projects/tails/issues?per_page=200&query_id=200 could help :)
(07:12:58 PM) intrigeri: availability: don't try to add things (that I'm not already committed to) to my plate. of course, foundations team & other core work is already on my plate.
(07:13:15 PM) emmapeel: sajolida: i get You are not authorized to access this page.
(07:13:31 PM) geb: emmapeel, sajolida: same for me FWIW
(07:13:36 PM) segfault: I will work on the VeraCrypt in GNOME project, the review of the additional software packages project, and probably the new USB image project and OnionKit aka Tails Server
(07:14:24 PM) anonym: segfault: you might notice that my current Redmine plate includes #12226
(07:14:25 PM) Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Feature #12226: Initial review of Tails Server implementation https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/12226
(07:14:31 PM) drebs: i will help emmapeel with some translation work this month, not actually sure how much but i am reserving a couple or more hours a week for this
(07:14:40 PM) segfault: anonym: uh nice :)
(07:14:50 PM) sajolida: buggy query, sorry! → https://labs.riseup.net/code/projects/tails/issues?query_id=128
(07:14:57 PM) anonym: segfault: this time for real, I swear^W promise^W will do my best!
(07:15:10 PM) segfault: anonym: :D
(07:15:41 PM) sajolida: everbody told us about their plans, i think...
(07:15:52 PM) nodens entered the room.
(07:15:55 PM) sajolida: so let's move on to the next topic!!! → "Important missing bits in the next monthly report (https://tails.boum.org/blueprint/monthly_report/)."
(07:15:59 PM) nodens: hi there
(07:16:15 PM) sajolida: the blueprint: https://tails.boum.org/blueprint/monthly_report/report_2018_01/
(07:16:15 PM) nodens: sorry pidgin wasn't willing to connect for some reason
(07:16:49 PM) intrigeri: I'll add my bits to the report tomorrow.
(07:17:41 PM) emmapeel: i added the bits for frontdesk the other day and the translation stats but apparently those were not good :S
(07:17:44 PM) nodens: availability and plans: availability low, will continue working on migrating openpgp-applet to salsa (but the final part will have to wait for *.pages.debian.net to have a proper certificate, so probably not before the end of the month anyway)
(07:18:07 PM) anonym: I could perhaps write something for the report regarding #15281
(07:18:07 PM) jvoisin: ho, my talk in March
(07:18:07 PM) Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Feature #15281: Stack one single SquashFS diff when upgrading https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/15281
(07:18:13 PM) jvoisin: at a school in Paris
(07:18:37 PM) sajolida: jvoisin: add it or tell me more about it now!
(07:18:38 PM) intrigeri: anonym: add it to the February report, then :)
(07:18:45 PM) segfault: i don't think i have anything to add to the report
(07:18:45 PM) geb: i'll also add some outreach event tomorrow (and mail tails-project@)
(07:18:48 PM) nodens: I have nothing to put in the report except that I'm moving openpgp-applet to salsa, and I'd rather wait for it to be done before putting it in the report
(07:18:50 PM) anonym: intrigeri: true!
(07:19:29 PM) jvoisin: sajolida: https://www.federez.net/journees/2018/ here
(07:19:30 PM) jvoisin: (iirc)
(07:19:34 PM) emmapeel: segfault: what about tails server?
(07:19:34 PM) jvoisin: About Tails
(07:19:56 PM) segfault: emmapeel: i want to wait until there is a beta release or something people can look at
(07:20:40 PM) sajolida: jvoisin: i don't see "Tails" or "voisin" in the programme?
(07:20:58 PM) emmapeel: i see
(07:20:59 PM) jvoisin: not yet
(07:21:03 PM) jvoisin: maybe we should wait then
(07:21:32 PM) sajolida: it is "jvoisin will give a talk about Tails at Journées FedeRez"?
(07:21:52 PM) sajolida: on March ???
(07:22:01 PM) sajolida: if you know the day already that might be enough
(07:22:08 PM) sajolida: otherwise we should move on to the next topic!
(07:22:17 PM) jvoisin: between 9 and 11
(07:22:18 PM) jvoisin: meh
(07:22:22 PM) jvoisin: lets wait until further info
(07:22:26 PM) sajolida: which is... prepared discussion
(07:22:28 PM) sajolida: jvoisin: ok!
(07:22:29 PM) jvoisin: (I don't know much more about it tbh :D )
(07:22:43 PM) sajolida: we have one prepared discussion in the list, about #15275
(07:22:44 PM) Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Bug #15275: Remove the GNOME Keyring persistent feature https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/15275
(07:23:00 PM) sajolida: please everybody take 2 minutes to read the full ticket because starting the discussion...
(07:23:29 PM) nodens: jvoisin, sajolida, if I read correctly the agenda it will be on the saturday (since the rest as no conference)
(07:23:40 PM) sajolida: nodens: ok!
(07:24:09 PM) anonym: cool! IIRC the only reason we added it was for the password part of persistent NM connections, so let's kill it then
(07:24:20 PM) spriver: I say remove GNOME Keyring from Tails. If there's no apparent reason for having it, let's drop it then
(07:24:38 PM) geb: same, tend to agree
(07:24:40 PM) anonym: so, does anyone know what it actually is used for?
(07:24:42 PM) intrigeri: I think removing the software entirely implies much more work.
(07:25:14 PM) emmapeel: is that the only thing it does?
(07:25:20 PM) anonym: note that the ticket is about the *persistent feature*, not the application
(07:25:36 PM) spriver: anonym: ack
(07:25:37 PM) anonym: emmapeel: that's what I'd like to know, what applications are integrated in it?
(07:25:40 PM) intrigeri: It's the backend for various apps that want to store secrets. Probably a dependency of something we install.
(07:25:56 PM) emmapeel: for example what abut ssh-agent? or thunderbird?
(07:26:19 PM) emmapeel: how can i test this? some service stop command?
(07:26:29 PM) nodens: I removed my passphrase from gnome-keyring and I still have a working agent - it just asks me for a passphrase when it never did
(07:26:32 PM) sajolida: The following packages will be REMOVED:
  evolution-data-server gdm3 gnome-keyring gnome-session gnome-shell gnome-shell-extension-top-icons-plus gnome-shell-extensions
  gnome-shell-pomodoro openpgp-applet seahorse tails-greeter
(07:26:35 PM) anonym: 
Reverse Depends:
  seahorse
  liferea
  libgnome-keyring0
  libgnome-keyring0
  evolution-data-server
  network-manager-gnome
  gnome-session
  gvfs-backends

(07:26:54 PM) sajolida: so we can't remove the software like that
(07:26:58 PM) emmapeel: POMODORO!!! estas loco!
(07:27:01 PM) nodens: (also I can now effectively remove the keys from the agent)
(07:27:04 PM) intrigeri: I think trying to remove GNOME Keyring is costly (now + in the future) for very small cost.
(07:27:08 PM) sajolida: but we still have an agreement on removing the persistent feature
(07:27:12 PM) intrigeri: yes!
(07:27:16 PM) sajolida: yeah, so let's move on!
(07:27:16 PM) anonym: yes!
(07:27:20 PM) nodens: yes :)
(07:27:22 PM) intrigeri: s/small cost/small benefit/
(07:27:39 PM) geb: just a remark/question: it is not used for printer passwords ?
(07:27:43 PM) sajolida: there are no more prepared discussions on the list
(07:27:54 PM) sajolida: if someone has prepared one but didn't put it in the list, speak now
(07:27:58 PM) sajolida: otherwise the meeting is over
(07:28:22 PM) sajolida: 1
(07:28:27 PM) sajolida: 2
(07:28:29 PM) sajolida: 3
(07:28:30 PM) spriver: nothing from my side
(07:28:30 PM) anonym: 5
(07:28:30 PM) nodens: mhmm I wanted to discuss stuff about openpgp-applet on salsa
(07:28:36 PM) nodens: but failed to prepare
(07:28:36 PM) sajolida: ah!
(07:28:39 PM) nodens: so it can wait
(07:28:46 PM) intrigeri: 0x2A
(07:28:49 PM) sajolida: ok :)
(07:28:56 PM) sajolida: so let's stop here
(07:29:00 PM) anonym: prepared discussions only!
(07:29:02 PM) spriver: oui
(07:29:05 PM) intrigeri: genau
(07:29:08 PM) sajolida: thank you very much everybody for attending, it's good to see so many people around!
(07:29:26 PM) intrigeri: thx, bye
(07:29:26 PM) spriver: bon voyage! 
(07:29:27 PM) anonym: yay! I'll prepare the notes later tonight!
(07:29:31 PM) nodens: it it was half as short as usual... amazing :)
(07:29:35 PM) intrigeri left the room (Stream reset by peer).
(07:29:42 PM) geb: bye folks :)
(07:29:54 PM) jvoisin: :)
(07:30:37 PM) nodens: bye everyone, thanks for the meeting :)
