<!DOCTYPE html>

<html lang="en" dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">

<head>

<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Tails - August 2017 online meeting</title>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1" />

<link rel="icon" href="../../favicon.ico" type="image/x-icon" />

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../../style.css" type="text/css" />

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../../local.css" type="text/css" />


<script src="../../lib/js/mirror-dispatcher.js" type="text/javascript"></script>









</head>


<body class="en">


<div class="searchform">



</div>

<div class="banner" role="banner">
  <a class="tails" href="../../index.en.html">
    <span class="acronym">Tails</span><br/>
    <span class="slogan">The Amnesic Incognito Live System</span>
  </a>
</div>

<div class="page">

<div class="pageheader">
<div class="header">
<span>
<span class="parentlinks">
<ul id="crumbs">
<li><a href="../../index.en.html"><img src="../../lib/home.png"></a></li>







<li><a href="../../contribute.en.html">contribute</a></li>





<li><a href="../meetings.html">meetings</a></li>




<li>August 2017 online meeting</li>

</ul>
</span>
<span class="title">
August 2017 online meeting
</span>
</span>
</div>










</div>



<div class="sidebar" role="navigation">
<div class="download button">
  <a href="../../install.en.html"><span class="download">Install</span>
    <span class="tails">Tails 
3.9
</span>
    <span class="date">
2018-09-05</span></a>
</div>




<div class="links">
  <ul>
    <li><a href="../../about.en.html">About</a></li>
    <li><a href="../../getting_started.en.html">Getting startedâ€¦</a></li>
    <li><a href="../../doc.en.html">Documentation</a></li>
    <li><a href="../../support.en.html">Help &amp; Support</a></li>
    <li><a href="../../contribute.en.html">Contribute</a></li>
    <li><a href="../../news.en.html">News</a></li>
  </ul>
</div>




<div class="donate button">
    <a href="https://tails.boum.org/donate?r=sidebar">Donate</a>
</div>


</div>



<div id="pagebody">

<div id="content" role="main">


<div class="toc">
<ol>
	<li class="L1"><a href="#index1h1">Meta</a>
	</li>
	<li class="L1"><a href="#index2h1">Discussions</a>
	<ol>
		<li class="L2"><a href="#index1h2">Volunteers to handle "Hole in the roof" tickets this month</a>
		</li>
		<li class="L2"><a href="#index2h2">Availability and plans for next month</a>
		</li>
	</ol>
	</li>
	<li class="L1"><a href="#index3h1">Tickets on Agenda:</a>
	<ol>
		<li class="L2"><a href="#index3h2">Feature #12257: add a screenshot to our homepage</a>
		</li>
		<li class="L2"><a href="#index4h2">#8281: Consider replacing Florence with GNOME's own on-screen keyboard</a>
		</li>
	</ol>
	</li>
</ol>
</div>


<h1><a name="index1h1"></a>Meta</h1>

<ul>
<li><p>Attendees: intrigeri, sajolida, u, emmapeel, jvoisin, nodens</p></li>
<li><p><a href="./201708/logs.txt">Logs</a></p></li>
</ul>


<h1><a name="index2h1"></a>Discussions</h1>

<h2><a name="index1h2"></a>Volunteers to handle "<a href="https://labs.riseup.net/code/versions/198">Hole in the roof</a>" tickets this month</h2>

<ul>
<li>Consensus on removing <a href="https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/8937">Feature #8937: Improve live-persist</a> from the list</li>
<li><a href="https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/5340">Feature #5340: Analyze Jake FOCI12 paper</a> was suggested for removal, but after short discussion it still qualifies</li>
<li>intrigeri is taking over <a href="https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/13416">#13416 - Restore APT pining of deb.pt.o</a>, since it's foundation team.</li>
<li><a href="https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/7700">#7700: Have a distribution mechanism for the revocation certificate of our signing key</a> (private) has only one subticket left: <a href="https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/10022">Feature 10022: Have experts review our revocation mechanism of Tails signing key</a>. Unparenting was suggested so that it would be visible on it's own. Emmapeel is still willing to work on it. As an help for potential contributors, ticket description was clarified, and the target version "Hole in the roof" has been added so it would be visible to all in this list and don't fall off our radar.</li>
</ul>


<h2><a name="index2h2"></a>Availability and plans for next month</h2>

<ul>
<li>u: planned one day next week (tickets and debian stuff), might add another one, only reachable by email the rest of the time and not necessarily available for work.</li>
<li>nodens: plans to work on debian stuff during DebConf but also take care of a few openpgp-applet tickets</li>
<li>emmapeel: on frontdesk shift most of the month (except week 33)</li>
<li>intrigeri: mostly unavailable until the 12th of august (DebConf): only very hi-prio stuff. Then completely unavailable until the 23th.</li>
<li>sajolida: heavy work on Tails between August 11th to 22nd:
<strong> close down the analysis of last year's donation campaign.
</strong> prepare UX sessions for summit (personnas!)
<strong> move forward other user research stuff while doing this (piwik, maybe survey platform)
</strong> getting organized on OTF/Additional Software might be good
** move forward the switch to CCT as fiscal sponsor, and handle correspondingf account flow</li>
<li><p>emmapeel&gt; plans to prepare spanish translation to be moved into the repo</p>

<p>*u reminds everyone to add bits to monthly report (deadline: August 11th)</p></li>
</ul>


<h1><a name="index3h1"></a>Tickets on Agenda:</h1>

<h2><a name="index3h2"></a><a href="https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/12257">Feature #12257: add a screenshot to our homepage</a></h2>

<ul>
<li>There is consensus on adding it: it's a well established best practice for software homepages.</li>
<li>Better do it now with a very simple thing and make it fancier later than let it rot</li>
<li>u volonteers to create a laptop svg to put the screenshot in (but not integrating it). OTOH She also thinks it's a good idea to leave that as a task for tails-project or tails-ux, to use as a starter for a first contribution to Tails.</li>
<li>The person working on it should come up with proposals of what to display, with mockups if needed</li>
<li>Suggestions:

<ul>
<li>The laptop SVG should have an usb stick in it, visible, maybe with Tails logo</li>
<li>screenshots should show desktop, tor browser, persistence, glider or even email/chat, openpgp-applet... What's making Tails Tails.</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>


<h2><a name="index4h2"></a><a href="https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/8281">#8281: Consider replacing Florence with GNOME's own on-screen keyboard</a></h2>

<ul>
<li>emmapeel has seen several reports on buggy Florence</li>
<li>It's mostly unmaintained</li>
<li><p>does the pros outwight the cons ?</p>

<ul>
<li>some issues with GNOME OSK, but according to intrigeri, fixable appart from pinentry issue</li>
<li>pinentry issue might be worked around by revisiting previous project decision to ship pinentry-gtk2 and not pinentry-gnome3, after weighting the consequences carefully.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><p>Course of action:</p>

<ul>
<li>intrigeri tries to prepare a branch without florence that doesn't introduce too many regressions, and let people test it early enough before the 3.2 freeze.</li>
<li>intrigeri ensures we discuss the remaining regressions (e.g. pinentry) and what solutions we should implement later on (not blocking on that to drop Florence though.)</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>


</div>







</div>

<div id="footer" class="pagefooter" role="contentinfo">

<div id="pageinfo">












</div>
<div id="mirrorlist">Mirror: <a href="https://tails.boum.org/ikiwiki.cgi?do=goto&page=contribute/meetings/201708">tails.boum.org</a></div>

<!-- from The Amnesic Incognito Live System -->
</div>

</div>

<script type="text/javascript">
  var linkelements = document.querySelectorAll('.use-mirror-pool');
  if(linkelements.length > 0) {
    replaceUrlPrefixWithRandomMirror(linkelements);
  }
</script>

</body>
</html>
