<!DOCTYPE html>

<html lang="en" dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">

<head>

<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Tails - February 2018 online meeting</title>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1" />

<link rel="icon" href="../../favicon.ico" type="image/x-icon" />

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../../style.css" type="text/css" />

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../../local.css" type="text/css" />


<script src="../../lib/js/mirror-dispatcher.js" type="text/javascript"></script>









</head>


<body class="en">


<div class="searchform">



</div>

<div class="banner" role="banner">
  <a class="tails" href="../../index.en.html">
    <span class="acronym">Tails</span><br/>
    <span class="slogan">The Amnesic Incognito Live System</span>
  </a>
</div>

<div class="page">

<div class="pageheader">
<div class="header">
<span>
<span class="parentlinks">
<ul id="crumbs">
<li><a href="../../index.en.html"><img src="../../lib/home.png"></a></li>







<li><a href="../../contribute.en.html">contribute</a></li>





<li><a href="../meetings.html">meetings</a></li>




<li>February 2018 online meeting</li>

</ul>
</span>
<span class="title">
February 2018 online meeting
</span>
</span>
</div>










</div>



<div class="sidebar" role="navigation">
<div class="download button">
  <a href="../../install.en.html"><span class="download">Install</span>
    <span class="tails">Tails 
3.9
</span>
    <span class="date">
2018-09-05</span></a>
</div>




<div class="links">
  <ul>
    <li><a href="../../about.en.html">About</a></li>
    <li><a href="../../getting_started.en.html">Getting startedâ€¦</a></li>
    <li><a href="../../doc.en.html">Documentation</a></li>
    <li><a href="../../support.en.html">Help &amp; Support</a></li>
    <li><a href="../../contribute.en.html">Contribute</a></li>
    <li><a href="../../news.en.html">News</a></li>
  </ul>
</div>




<div class="donate button">
    <a href="https://tails.boum.org/donate?r=sidebar">Donate</a>
</div>


</div>



<div id="pagebody">

<div id="content" role="main">


<div class="toc">
<ol>
	<li class="L1"><a href="#index1h1">Meta</a>
	</li>
	<li class="L1"><a href="#index2h1">Volunteers to handle "Hole in the roof" tickets this month</a>
	</li>
	<li class="L1"><a href="#index3h1">Volunteers to handle important tickets flagged for next release, but without assignee</a>
	</li>
	<li class="L1"><a href="#index4h1">Availability and plans until the next meeting</a>
	</li>
	<li class="L1"><a href="#index5h1">Important missing bits in the next monthly report</a>
	</li>
	<li class="L1"><a href="#index6h1">Remove the GNOME Keyring persistent feature</a>
	</li>
</ol>
</div>


<h1><a name="index1h1"></a>Meta</h1>

<ul>
<li>Attendees: anonym, drebs, emmapeel, geb, intrigeri, jvoisin, nodens,
sajolida, segfault, spriver</li>
<li><p>Actively lurking: ?</p></li>
<li><p><a href="./201802/log.txt">Logs</a></p></li>
</ul>


<h1><a name="index2h1"></a>Volunteers to handle "Hole in the roof" tickets this month</h1>

<ul>
<li>intrigeri did enough roof work recently to take some time off.</li>
<li>anonym will at least try to determine if <a href="https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/5447">#5447</a> is
an issue for (non-VirtualBox) users. If not =&gt; reject.</li>
<li>emmapeel has been working on <a href="https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/10022">#10022</a>.</li>
<li>spriver has been reading the paper from <a href="https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/5340">#5340</a> but
gives no promise about finishing it in the near future.</li>
<li>We have a grand plan (<a href="https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/15292">#15292</a>) that will solve
<a href="https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/12146">#12146</a> if it gets funded.</li>
</ul>


<h1><a name="index3h1"></a>Volunteers to handle important tickets flagged for next release, but without assignee</h1>

<p>There were none!</p>

<h1><a name="index4h1"></a>Availability and plans until the next meeting</h1>

<ul>
<li>spriver: (maybe) a bit of doc/translation stuff, but I'm starting
slowly now and let's see how it'll go. I'll be online most of the
days.</li>
<li>emmapeel: i am on frontdesk shift and i also plan to work on the
translation platform with drebs and next month also with groente and

<ol type="a">
<li></li>
</ol>
</li>
<li>anonym: availability: I'm dedicated to the sprint and recovering
from it for the next week, after that I'm available "office hours"
(CET).
plans: I am deliberately chilling with my plans, but I intend to
kill my current Redmine plate. In particular my intent is to review
<a href="https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/12226">#12226</a> (Tails Server) for segfault.</li>
<li>intrigeri: plans: accounting sprint, budget forecasting, grant
writing, negotiate new milestones arrangement with a sponsor
(VeraCrypt), trying to do the other parts of my core work. and on
top of that, try to enable Spanish on our website if time allows.
availability: don't try to add things (that I'm not already
committed to) to my plate. of course, foundations team &amp; other core
work is already on my plate.</li>
<li>segfault: I will work on the VeraCrypt in GNOME project, the review
of the additional software packages project, and probably the new
USB image project and OnionKit aka Tails Server.</li>
<li>nodens: availability and plans: availability low, will continue
working on migrating openpgp-applet to salsa (but the final part
will have to wait for *.pages.debian.net to have a proper
certificate, so probably not before the end of the month anyway).</li>
<li>drebs: i will help emmapeel with some translation work this month,
not actually sure how much but i am reserving a couple or more hours
a week for this.</li>
</ul>


<h1><a name="index5h1"></a>Important missing bits in the next monthly report</h1>

<p>All non-trivial comments actually should go into the <em>next</em> monthly
report (jvoisin will <a href="https://www.federez.net/journees/2018/">do a presentation of Tails on March
10</a>; anonym will write
something about <a href="https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/15281">#15281</a>). :)</p>

<h1><a name="index6h1"></a><a href="https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/15275">Remove the GNOME Keyring persistent feature</a></h1>

<p>We decided to implement this ticket, i.e. we will remove this
persistent feature and adjust the user documentation accordingly.</p>

<p>Rationale: the original reason for this feature being added was that
GNOME's NetworkManager applet used it for storing its secrets (with
the NetworkManager persistent feature storing all other data). But
this is not required any more, and we failed to find any other common
use case depending on this persistent feature, rendering this
persistent feature useless and nothing but a contributor of noise.</p>

<p>There was some brief discussion about whether we could remove
<code>gnome-keyring</code> entirely, but the reverse dependencies makes this very
costly, so given the small benefits we decided not to put any effort
into this.</p>

</div>







</div>

<div id="footer" class="pagefooter" role="contentinfo">

<div id="pageinfo">












</div>
<div id="mirrorlist">Mirror: <a href="https://tails.boum.org/ikiwiki.cgi?do=goto&page=contribute/meetings/201802">tails.boum.org</a></div>

<!-- from The Amnesic Incognito Live System -->
</div>

</div>

<script type="text/javascript">
  var linkelements = document.querySelectorAll('.use-mirror-pool');
  if(linkelements.length > 0) {
    replaceUrlPrefixWithRandomMirror(linkelements);
  }
</script>

</body>
</html>
